.


Release Date
25/10/2017

Classification
Other

Statute Type
Regulation

Publish Date
3/11/2017

Statute Status
Active

Statute Release Tool
Royal Decree No. M/20

Hide Table Content
Anti-Money Laundering Law
Chapter 1 Definitions
Article 1
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, unless the context requires otherwise: 

1. Law: Anti-Money Laundering Law 

2. Regulations: The Implementing regulations of the Law. 

3. Funds: Assets, economic resources, or properties of any value, type, or source—whether material or immaterial, movable or immovable, tangible or intangible—as well as documents, deeds, money transfers, and letters of credit of any form, whether inside the Kingdom or abroad, including electronic or digital systems, bank credits that indicate ownership or interest therein, all types of commercial and financial securities, and any other interests, profits, or returns generated from such funds. 

4. Predicate Offense: Any act committed within the Kingdom which constitutes a punishable offense under Sharia or the Kingdom's applicable laws, and any act committed outside the Kingdom if it constitutes an offense according to the laws of the country where it occurred and would have constituted an offense according to Sharia or the Kingdom’s applicable laws if committed within the Kingdom. 

5. Proceeds: Any funds directly or indirectly generated or acquired within the Kingdom or abroad by committing a predicate offense, including funds that are transferred or exchanged wholly or partially to funds of a similar nature. 

6. Means: Anything intended to be used, prepared to be used, or actually used in committing one of the offenses stipulated in this Law. 

7. Financial Institutions: Any entity that engages in one or more of the financial activities or transactions specified by the Regulations for the benefit of a customer or on his behalf. 

8. Designated Non-Financial Businesses and Professions: Any commercial or professional activity specified by the Regulations. 

9. Non-Profit Organizations: Any non-profit entity, licensed under the law, that collects or receives funds or expends therefrom for charitable, religious, cultural, educational, social, cooperative, or other purposes. 

10. Provisional Seizure: Temporary ban on transport, transfer, exchange, disposal, movement, or seizure of funds pursuant to an order issued by a competent court or authority. 

11. Confiscation: Permanent dispossession and deprivation of funds, crime proceeds, or means pursuant to a judgment rendered by a competent court. 

12. Monitoring Agency: The agency responsible for verifying the compliance of financial institutions, designated non-financial businesses and professions, and non-profit organizations with the requirements stipulated in this Law and its Regulations or any relevant decisions or instructions. 

13. Competent Authorities: Administrative authorities and law-enforcement and monitoring agencies. 

14. Bearer Negotiable Instruments: Monetary instruments in bearer form such as checks and promissory notes, as well as payment orders that are either in bearer form, indorsed, or made out to a fictitious payee, or in any other form by which the benefit transfers upon delivery, and signed incomplete instruments with the name of the beneficiary omitted. 

15. Beneficial Owner: Any natural person who ultimately owns or exercises direct or indirect control over a customer or natural person on whose behalf a transaction is conducted, or over financial institutions, designated non-financial businesses and professions, and non-profit organizations, or any other legal person. 

16. Customer: Any person who conducts or attempts to conduct any of the activities specified by the Regulations with a financial institution or a designated non-financial business or profession. 

17. Business Relationship: A relationship of an ongoing nature that arises between a customer and a financial institution or designated non-financial business and profession, which is related to rendered activities and services. 

18. Shell Bank: A bank that is incorporated or licensed in a country in which it has no physical presence and is unaffiliated with a financial group subject to regulation and monitoring. 

19. Wire Transfer: A financial transaction carried out by a financial institution on behalf of an originator, wherein an amount of money is transferred to a beneficiary at another financial institution, irrespective of whether or not the originator and the beneficiary are the same. 

20. Due Diligence Measures: The process of recognizing or verifying the identity of the customer or the beneficial owner, which enables a financial institution and a designated non-financial business and profession to assess the level of exposure to risk

Chapter 2 Incrimination
Article 2
A person shall be deemed to have committed a money laundering crime if he: 

1. transfers, transports, or conducts any transaction involving funds with the knowledge that they are proceeds of a crime with the intent to conceal or disguise their illicit origin, or aids a person involved in committing the predicate offense through which such funds were acquired to evade legal consequences; 

2. acquires, possesses, or uses funds with the knowledge that they are proceeds of a crime or obtained from an illicit source; 

3. conceals or disguises the nature, source, movement, ownership, location, and manner of disposition, as well as any associated rights, with the knowledge that they are proceeds of a crime; or 

4. attempts to commit any of the acts stipulated in paragraphs (1), 2), and (3) of this Article, or participates in the commission thereof through agreement, assistance, incitement, guidance, advice, facilitation, collusion, concealment, or conspiracy. 

Article 3
A legal person shall be deemed to have committed a money laundering crime if any of the acts stipulated in Article 2 of this Law is committed in its name or for its account, without prejudice to the criminal liability of the chairmen and members of its boards of directors, as well as its owners, employees, authorized representatives, auditors, or any other natural person acting in its name or for its account. 

Article 4
1. A money laundering crime shall constitute a crime separate from the predicate offense. A person need not be convicted of a predicate offense in order to be convicted of a money laundering crime or for funds to be considered proceeds of a crime, regardless of whether the predicate offense is committed within the Kingdom or abroad. 

2. The intent, knowledge, or purpose of committing a money laundering crime shall be established based on the facts and substantive circumstances of the case. 

Chapter 3 Preventive Measures
Article 5
Financial institutions and designated non-financial businesses and professions shall identify, assess, document, and regularly update risk assessment of money laundering by using different risk assessment methods, including factors related to their customers, other countries, geographical areas, products, services, transactions, and delivery channels, and they shall provide reports thereon to the monitoring agencies upon request. They shall also consider, prior to implementation, the risks associated with new products, business practices, and technologies.

Article 6 
Financial institutions shall not open or maintain numbered accounts or accounts under anonymous or fictitious names. 

Article 7 
Financial institutions and designated non-financial businesses and professions shall: 

1. apply due diligence measures in dealings with their customers. The Regulations shall determine the types of measures and the cases where they shall be applied; and 

2. set the scope of due diligence measures based on the level of risk associated with the customer, businesses, or commercial relationships. Enhanced due diligence measures shall apply where the risk of money laundering is high. 

Article 8 
Financial institutions and designated non-financial businesses and professions shall employ the appropriate tools to determine whether a customer or a beneficial owner is assigned or has become assigned to a high public mission in the Kingdom or in a foreign country, or to a senior administrative post, or to a position at an international organization, and shall, if a customer is assigned to any of the above, apply additional measures as specified in the Regulations.

Article 9 
1. Financial institutions shall, prior to entering into a correspondent relationship with financial institutions outside the Kingdom, comply with the appropriate measures to reduce potential risks that may arise from such relationship, as specified in the Regulations, and shall ensure that such institutions do not permit shell banks to use their accounts; 

2. Financial institutions shall not enter into or maintain a correspondent relationship with shell banks, nor with financial institutions outside the Kingdom that permit shell banks to use their accounts.

Article 10 
1. Financial institutions that engage in wire transfers shall obtain information on the originator and the beneficiary, and shall keep such information along with the wire transfer orders or related messages throughout the payment chain. If the financial institution is unable to obtain such information, the wire transfer shall not be executed. 

2. Financial institutions shall record all information related to an originator and a beneficial owner, and shall keep the records, documents, and data, in accordance with Article 12 of this Law. 

3. Financial institutions shall comply with any additional measures stipulated in the Regulations relating to wire transfers. 

Article 11 
1. Financial institutions and designated non-financial businesses and professions shall apply enhanced due diligence measures in line with the risks that may arise from business relationships and transactions with a person from a country identified as high risk by such institutions or by the Anti-Money Laundering Permanent Committee. 

2. Financial institutions and designated non-financial businesses and professions shall apply the measures specified by the Anti-Money Laundering Permanent Committee regarding high-risk countries. 

Article 12
1. Financial institutions and designated non-financial businesses and professions shall maintain all records, documents, and data for all financial transactions and commercial and cash dealings, whether carried out locally or abroad, for at least ten years from the date of completion of the transaction or closure of the account. 

2. Financial institutions and designated non-financial businesses and professions shall maintain all the records and documents obtained through due diligence measures, as well as account files, commercial correspondences, copies of personal identification documents, and the results of any analysis conducted, for at least ten years from the date of termination of the business relationship or after the completion of a transaction for a customer with whom they are not in a standing business relationship. 

3. The Public Prosecution may, as the case may be, require financial institutions and designated non-financial businesses and professions to extend the period of maintaining the records, documents, and data to the extent necessary for achieving the purposes of criminal investigation or prosecution. 

4. The maintained records and documents must be sufficient for analyzing data and tracking financial transactions, and must be made readily available to the competent authorities upon request. 

Article 13 
Financial institutions and designated non-financial businesses and professions shall: 

1. monitor and regularly inspect transactions, documents, and data to ensure they are consistent with the information available on the customer, his commercial activities, his risk profile, and, if necessary, the source of his funds; 

2. audit all complex and unusually large transactions as well as any irregular pattern of transactions which have no apparent economic or lawful purpose; 

3. enhance due diligence measures as well as the level and nature of monitoring the business relationship in cases where the risks of money laundering are high, to determine whether the transaction appears to be unusual or suspicious; and 

4. maintain inspection records for a period of ten years and make them available to the competent authorities upon request. 

Article 14
1. Financial institutions and designated non-financial businesses and professions shall: 

a) develop anti-money laundering internal policies, regulations, and procedures and effectively implement them to manage and mitigate risks as specified in Article 5 of this Law, provided that such policies, regulations, and procedures are appropriate to the nature and size of their businesses; are approved by their senior management; and are subject to continued review and improvement; and 

b) apply the internal policies, regulations, and procedures provided in paragraph (a) to all branches and majority-owned subsidiaries. 

2. The Regulations shall specify what needs to be covered in the anti-money laundering internal policies, regulations, and procedures developed by financial institutions, designated non-financial businesses and professions, and non-profit organizations, in accordance with paragraph (1)(a) of this Article. 

Article 15
In cases where financial institutions, designated non-financial businesses and professions, and non-profit organizations, including persons providing legal or accounting services, suspect or have reasonable grounds to suspect that the funds or parts thereof are proceeds of a crime, or are related to or would be used in money laundering transactions, including attempts to carry out such transactions, they shall take the following measures: 

1. Immediately and directly notify the General Administration of Financial Investigations of the transaction and provide it with a detailed report containing all available data and information on such transaction and the parties involved therein. 

2. Provide any additional information required by the General Administration of Financial Investigations.

Article 16
1. Financial institutions, designated non-financial businesses and professions, and non-profit organizations, as well as any of their directors, board members, executive or supervisory management members, or employees, shall be prohibited from alerting their customers or any other person that a report prepared pursuant to this Law or any information related thereto has been or will be submitted to the General Administration of Financial Investigations, or that a criminal investigation is being or has been conducted. This shall not include disclosures or communications among directors and employees, or communications with lawyers or the competent authorities. 

2. Financial institutions, designated non-financial businesses and professions, and non-profit organizations, as well as any of their directors, board members, executive or supervisory management members, or employees thereof, shall not be held liable towards the reported person if they, in good faith, submit their report or information to the General Administration of Financial Investigations. 

Chapter 4 General Administration of Financial Investigations
Article 17
The General Administration of Financial Investigations shall report to the President of State Security and shall have adequate operational independence to carry out its duties. In its capacity as a national central agency, it shall receive notifications, information, and reports relating to money laundering, predicate offenses, or proceeds of a crime, as stipulated in this Law and its Regulations. It shall also analyze such notifications, information, and reports and submit its findings to the competent authorities at its own initiative or upon request. The President of State Security shall approve the organizational structure of the General Administration of Financial Investigations, and the Regulations shall determine its powers and duties. 

Article 18
1. The General Administration of Financial Investigations may directly obtain from the person filing the report any additional information that could assist in the analysis thereof. In cases where financial institutions have not filed a report in accordance with Article 15 of this Law, or if the General Administration of Financial Investigations requires information not related to a specific report it has received, it shall request such information through the relevant monitoring agency. Financial institutions, designated non-financial businesses and professions, and non-profit organizations shall promptly submit such information. 

2. The General Administration of Financial Investigations may, in accordance with statutory provisions, obtain any financial, administrative, or legal information or any relevant information collected or maintained by the competent authorities, or entities acting on their behalf, if it deems such information is necessary for carrying out its duties. 

Article 19
The General Administration of Financial Investigations may, at its own initiative or upon request, submit the information and the results of its analysis to the relevant competent authorities if there are reasons to suspect a transaction is related to money laundering or a predicate offense. The Administration shall have absolute authority to exercise its powers, which include making an independent decision to analyze, request, redirect, or submit particular information. 

Article 20
Any employee of the General Administration of Financial Investigations or any person affiliated therewith, may not disclose any information he becomes privy to in the course of carrying out his duties and long after the termination thereof. 

Article 21 
The General Administration of Financial Investigations may exchange the information it maintains with the competent authorities and may enter into agreements or memoranda of understanding with such authorities to facilitate cooperation and exchange of information. 

Article 22
1. The General Administration of Financial Investigations may exchange with or request from any foreign counterpart any information related to its work, and may, pursuant to statutory procedures, conclude an agreement or arrangement with any foreign counterpart to facilitate the exchange of information. 

2. The General Administration of Financial Investigations shall, when providing a foreign counterpart with information in accordance with this Article, obtain a declaration or pledge therefrom that such information may only be used for the purpose it was requested for, unless said counterpart obtains the approval of the Administration to use such information for a different purpose. 

Chapter 5 Customs Declaration
Article 23
1. Any person who, upon entering or departing the Kingdom, is in possession of any currencies, bearer negotiable instruments, gold bars, precious metals or stones, or jewelry, with values amounting to or exceeding the maximum limit stipulated in the Regulations, or arranges for the transportation of the same into or out of the Kingdom through a shipping, transport, postal service, or by any other means, must declare such items to Saudi Customs, which may request additional information from said person about the source of such items or their intended use. 

2. Saudi Customs may seize the currencies, bearer negotiable instruments, gold bars, precious metals or stones, or jewelry for a period of 72 hours if there is suspicion that they are proceeds of or means used in a money laundering crime or a predicate offense, or are related thereto, including cases where the amounts do not reach the maximum limit requiring declaration as stated in paragraph (1) of this Article, or in cases of failure to declare or submitting a false declaration in accordance with this Article. 

3. Saudi Customs may, in cases of failure to declare or submitting a false declaration and where there is no suspicion that such items are related to a money laundering crime or a predicate offense, impose a fine in accordance with the Regulations. 

4. The General Administration of Financial Investigations may obtain any information received by Saudi Customs. 

5. The Regulations shall specify the rules and procedures related to declaration and the powers of Saudi Customs in implementing the requirements thereof. 

Chapter 6 Monitoring
Article 24
While carrying out their duties, monitoring agencies shall: 

a) collect data and information from financial institutions, designated non-financial businesses and professions, and non-profit organizations and apply appropriate supervisory procedures, including field and office inspections; 

b) require financial institutions, designated non-financial businesses and professions, and non-profit organizations to provide any information that the monitoring agency deems necessary for carrying out its duties, and obtain copies of documents and files regardless of the manner and medium of storage; 

c) carry out risk assessment for potential money laundering transactions at entities under the supervision of the monitoring agency; 

d) issue instructions, rules, guidelines, or any other directives to financial institutions, designated non-financial businesses and professions, and non-profit organizations, in implementation of the provisions of this Law; 

e) cooperate and coordinate with the competent authorities in sharing information related to supervising the combating of money laundering with foreign counterparts; in executing requests related to monitoring acts received from a foreign counterpart on behalf thereof; or when requesting relevant information or seeking cooperation from a foreign counterpart; 

f) ensure that financial institutions, designated non-financial businesses and professions, and non-profit organizations adopt and enforce the measures prescribed by this Law at their foreign branches and majority-owned subsidiaries to the extent permitted by the laws of the country where such branches and subsidiaries are located; 

g) develop and enforce integrity and adequacy measures upon any person seeking to participate in the management or supervision of financial institutions, designated non-financial businesses and professions, and non- profit organizations, or to own or control the same directly or indirectly, or to become a beneficial owner of significant shares therein; and 

h) maintain statistics concerning measures adopted and penalties imposed.

Article 25
Without prejudice to any harsher penalty or any other measure stipulated in any other law, the monitoring agency may, upon discovering any violation of the provisions set forth in this Law, its Regulations, or relevant decisions or instructions by financial institutions, designated non-financial businesses and professions, and non-profit organizations or any of their directors, board members, executive or supervisory management members, or upon referral of a violation thereto by the competent authority, take or impose one or more of the following measures or penalties: 

1. Issue a written warning regarding the violation committed. 

2. Issue an order to comply with specific instructions. 

3. Issue an order to provide regular reports on the measures taken to remedy the violation. 

4. Impose a fine not exceeding five million riyals for each violation. 

5. Ban violators from working within the sectors supervised by the monitoring agency for a period determined by such agency. 

6. Restrict the powers of directors, board members, executive or supervisory management members, or controlling owners, including the appointment of one or more temporary controllers. 

7. Suspend or request replacement of directors, board members, or executive or supervisory management members. 

8. Suspend, restrict, or prohibit the practice of the activity, business, profession, or product. 

9. Suspend, restrict, withdraw, or revoke the license; the monitoring agency shall inform the General Administration for Financial Investigations of any measures taken. 

Chapter 7 Penalties
Article 26 
Any person committing a money laundering crime, as stipulated in Article 2 of this Law, shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of not less than two years and not more than 10 years, or by a fine of not more than five million riyals, or by both penalties.

Article 27 
Any person committing a money laundering crime, as stipulated in Article 2 of this Law, shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of not less than three years and not more than 15 years, or by a fine of not more than seven million riyals, or by both penalties, if such crime: 

1. is committed through an organized crime organization; 

2. involves the use of violence or weapons; 

3. is related to a public position occupied by the perpetrator, or involves the abuse of power; 

4. involves human trafficking; 

5. involves exploiting minors or the like; 

6. is committed through a correctional, charitable, or educational institution, or in a social service facility; or 

7. is committed by a perpetrator previously convicted pursuant to a local or foreign judgment. 

Article 28 
1. A Saudi national sentenced to imprisonment for a money laundering crime shall be banned from traveling outside the Kingdom for a period equal to his term of imprisonment. 

2. A non-Saudi convicted of a money laundering crime shall be deported from the Kingdom after serving his sentence and shall not be allowed to return thereto. 

Article 29 
The penalty of a perpetrator of a money laundering crime may be reduced, in accordance with Article 30, if he informs the competent authorities of a crime or of other perpetrators prior to their knowledge thereof, and such information leads to their arrest or seizure of funds, means, or crime proceeds. 

Article 30
The penalties stipulated in Article 26 of this Law may be reduced pursuant to circumstances prescribed by law. The penalty may be reduced to imprisonment for a term of not less than one year and not more than seven years, or to a fine of not more than three million riyals, or both penalties, if the perpetrator provides the competent authorities, following their knowledge of the crime, with information they would not have otherwise obtained, to assist them in: 

a) preventing the commission of another money laundering crime or limiting the effects thereof; 

b) identifying or prosecuting other perpetrators of the crime; 

c) obtaining evidence; or 

d) preventing organized crime organizations from obtaining or controlling illicit funds. 

Article 31 
1. Without prejudice to the criminal liability of a natural person, any legal person committing a money laundering crime shall be punished by a fine of not more than fifty million riyals and not less than double the value of the funds subject of the crime. 

2. A legal person may be punished by permanently or temporarily prohibiting it from directly or indirectly engaging in the licensed activity, or by permanently or temporarily closing its offices that were associated with the crimes, or by liquidating its business. 1. Without prejudice to the rights of bona fide third parties, the court shall, upon conviction of a person for a money laundering crime or a predicate offense, issue a judgment ordering the confiscation of: 2. The competent court shall render a judgment to confiscate the funds related to a money laundering crime, regardless of whether such funds are in the possession or ownership of the perpetrator or any other person. Said funds shall not be confiscated if the owner can establish that he has acquired the funds in return for a fair price or for the provision of a service proportionate to the value of such funds, or through other legitimate means, not knowing their illicit source. 

3. The competent court may invalidate or prohibit certain activities or businesses, whether contractual or otherwise, if any of the parties know, or ought to know, that such activities or businesses could compromise the 

Article 32
The judgment imposing penalty may include an order to publish its summary at the expense of the convicted person in a local newspaper issued in the area where he resides; if his area has no local newspaper, the summary shall be published either in the local newspaper nearest to his place of residence or by using any other appropriate medium, depending on the type, gravity, and impact of the crime, provided the summary is published after the judgment becomes final. 

Chapter 8 Confiscation
Article 33
1.Without prejudice to the rights of bona fide third parties, the court shall, upon conviction of a person for a money laundering crime or a predicate offense, issue a judgment ordering the confiscation of: 

a) money-laundered funds; 

b) crime proceeds; if such proceeds are intermingled with funds acquired from legitimate sources, an amount equal to the estimated value of the crime proceeds shall be confiscated; and 

c) means of a crime.

2. The competent court shall render a judgment to confiscate the funds related to a money laundering crime, regardless of whether such funds are in the possession or ownership of the perpetrator or any other person. Said funds shall not be confiscated if the owner can establish that he has acquired the funds in return for a fair price or for the provision of a service proportionate to the value of such funds, or through other legitimate means, not knowing their illicit source. 

3. The competent court may invalidate or prohibit certain activities or businesses, whether contractual or otherwise, if any of the parties know, or ought to know, that such activities or businesses could compromise the ability of the competent authorities to recover the funds subject to confiscation

Article 34 
The competent court shall, in the absence of conviction, render a judgment to confiscate the funds related to a money laundering crime in cases where it is not possible to prosecute the perpetrator due to his death, flight, absence, or inability to determine his identity. 

Article 35
1. If it is not possible to confiscate the funds related to a money laundering crime due to the fact that they cannot be located or if they are no longer available for confiscation, the competent court shall order the confiscation of other funds owned by the perpetrator equal to the value of the funds originally sought for confiscation. 

2. If the crime proceeds confiscated in accordance with Article 33 of this Law are less in value than the proceeds of the predicate offense, the competent court shall confiscate other funds owned by the perpetrator to make up for the difference. 

Article 36
Unless otherwise stipulated by another law, confiscated funds shall accrue to the Public Treasury. Such funds shall remain encumbered, within the limits of their value, by any lawfully established rights of any bona fide third party. 

Article 37
If a judgment to confiscate funds, proceeds, or means which are used, intended to be used, or recovered in accordance with the provisions of this Law, and they are not required to be destroyed, the competent authority may dispose of the same in accordance with the law or share them with countries that are parties to valid agreements and treaties with the Kingdom. 

Chapter 9 International Cooperation
Article 38
The competent authorities may issue requests to foreign counterparts, share information therewith, and conduct investigations on their behalf in countries bound by valid agreements and treaties with the Kingdom, or on the basis of reciprocity, in accordance with applicable legal procedures, without prejudice to the State’s national sovereignty or the customs and laws related to confidentiality of information. 

Article 39
The competent authorities may, pursuant to a request from a competent court or authority in another country that is bound by a valid agreement with the Kingdom, or on the basis of reciprocity, offer assistance in investigations, claims, and procedures related to money laundering crimes and predicate offenses, including, but not limited to, assistance in tracking, seizing, confiscating, or recovering funds, proceeds, or means associated with a money laundering crime or a predicate offense, or the controlled delivery thereof in accordance with applicable laws in the Kingdom. The Regulations shall specify any additional assistance that could be offered, as well as the terms and conditions to be satisfied by the requesting country and the procedures to be applied. 

Article 40
The competent authorities may recognize and execute any final judgment ordering the confiscation of funds, proceeds, or means related to money laundering crimes or predicate offenses rendered by a competent court in another country that is bound by a valid agreement with the Kingdom, or on the basis of reciprocity, if the funds, proceeds, or means that the judgment ordered to be confiscated can be confiscated according to applicable laws in the Kingdom. 

Article 41
Any person accused or convicted of a money laundering crime may be extradited to or from another country, provided such extradition is executed pursuant to a valid agreement between the Kingdom and the requesting country, or is based on the principle of reciprocity. If extradition is denied, the person sought for extradition shall be tried before the competent courts in the Kingdom, using evidence submitted by the requesting country. The Regulations shall specify the manner of delivery. 

Article 42
The Permanent Committee for Mutual Legal Assistance Requests shall receive legal assistance requests relating to money laundering crimes and predicate offenses related thereto. 

Chapter 10 General Provisions
Article 43
1. The Public Prosecution may, at its own initiative or upon request from a preliminary criminal investigation officer, request any person, financial institutions—through monitoring agencies—designated non-financial businesses and professions, or non-profit organizations to provide records, documents, or information, and they shall comply with the request in a proper and accurate manner as defined in the request and without delay. The Regulations shall specify the manner of executing such requests. 

2. Any person notified of the request provided for in paragraph (1) of this Article shall not disclose any information about the request or its execution except to concerned persons, other employees, or management officers for the purpose of obtaining advice or specifying procedures necessary for executing the request. 

Article 44
1. The Public Prosecution may, at its own initiative, or upon request from the General Administration for Financial Investigations or from a preliminary criminal investigation officer, or upon suspicion of a money laundering crime or a predicate offense, order a provisional seizure of the funds that are, or may become, subject to confiscation for a period not exceeding 60 days. The order shall be issued and executed without prior notification to the concerned party, and it may be extended for a longer period pursuant to a judicial order rendered by the competent court, without prejudice to the rights of any bona fide third party. 

2. The Public Prosecution, upon issuing the provisional seizure order, may keep the seized funds under the control of the interested party or any other party, or request the competent court to issue an order to place such funds in the custody of a competent agency to prevent the concealment thereof. 

Article 45
Without prejudice to the Law of Criminal Procedure, the Public Prosecution may, at its own initiative or upon request from a preliminary criminal investigation officer, issue a warrant allowing a preliminary criminal investigation officer or an investigator to enter and search domiciles and offices, as well as the premises of the reporting entity, to search for and arrest persons or search for or seize funds, property, documents, evidence, or information related to a predicate offense or a money laundering crime at any time within the period specified in the search warrant. If necessary, no warrant shall be required to carry out such actions, provided a report is made indicating the grounds for urgency. A warrant to this effect shall be issued by the relevant party without prior notice to the intended party. The Public Prosecution shall notify the agency monitoring the reporting entities of the action taken pursuant to this Article. 

Article 46
Without prejudice to the Law of Criminal Procedure, the Public Prosecution may, at its own initiative or upon request from a preliminary criminal investigation officer, issue a reasoned order allowing a preliminary criminal investigation officer or an investigator to monitor, seize, record, intercept, restrain, and access all types of evidence, records, and messages, including letters, publications, packages, phone calls, and all means of communication, and information and data stored in computers, as specified in the order, whether related to a predicate offense or a money laundering crime. A warrant to this effect may be issued by the relevant party without prior notice to the intended party. 

Article 47
The competent court shall decide on all crimes provided for in this Law. 

Article 48
The Public Prosecution shall investigate the crimes provided for in this Law and prosecute them before the competent court; it may issue rules and directives to agencies subject to its supervision in accordance with the Law of Criminal Procedure. 

Article 49
Preliminary criminal investigation officers shall, each within his powers, search, conduct inquiries, and collect evidence relating to the crimes provided for in this Law, in addition to criminal and administrative prosecution for the purpose of identifying, tracking, or seizing the proceeds or means of a crime. 

Article 50
The President of State Security shall, in agreement with the Minister of Finance and the Public Prosecutor, issue the Regulations of this Law within a period not exceeding 90 days from the date of its issuance. 

Article 51
1. This Law shall supersede the Anti-Money Laundering Law, promulgated by Royal Decree No. (M/31) dated 11/5/1433H. 

2. This Law shall repeal any provisions conflicting therewith. 

3. This Law shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Gazette. 

