The procedures included: First Section: The Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary, which included: The Supreme Judicial Council, The Supreme Court, Courts of Appeal, Family Courts, Criminal Courts, Labor Courts, Commercial Courts, Quasi-Judicial Committees. Second Section: The Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Board of Grievances, which included: The Administrative Judiciary Council, The Supreme Administrative Court, Administrative Courts of Appeal. Third Section: General Provisions.


Release Date
20/9/2008

Classification
Judicary

Statute Type
Regulation

Publish Date
24/9/2008

Statute Status
Active

Statute Release Tool
Royal Decree No. M/78

Last Updated On
info
8/6/2022

Update Decree
Royal Decree No. M/113

Hide Table Content
Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances
Section 1: Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary
I. With regards to the Supreme Judicial Council:
1. Pending formation of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Supreme Judiciary
Council shall assume the following:
a) Nominate the four full-time judges for membership of the Supreme Judicial Council set forth in Article 5(b) of the Law of the Judiciary from among current Council members or others.
b) Nominate members of the Supreme Court.
c) Consider personnel affairs of judges, such as appointment, promotion, discipline, secondment, transfer, inspection and the like, in accordance with conditions set forth in the Law of the Judiciary.
d) Any other jurisdiction assigned to the Supreme Judicial Council pursuant to these Procedures.
2. Pending formation of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chairman of the Supreme Judiciary Council shall assume the powers of the Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council provided for in these Procedures.
3. Create sufficient administrative and technical positions for the workload of the Supreme Judicial Council in the first fiscal year following the entry into force of the Law of the Judiciary. The Committee referred to in clause 19(2) of the Organizational Arrangements for the Judicial and Dispute Settlement Bodies (hereinafter referred to as the "Technical Committee"), in conjunction with a representative of the Supreme Judicial Council, shall assume the
following:
a) Specify such positions after identifying vacant and occupied positions.
b) Set up financial, administrative, and personnel-related arrangements, which assist the Supreme Judicial Council in assuming its duties.
c) Assess the need for creating other administrative and technical positions for the Council, within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary.
4. Allocate a suitable premise for the Supreme Judicial Council in ample time prior to assuming its duties. The Ministry of Finance shall provide necessary funds in coordination with the Supreme Judicial Council.
5. The Judicial Inspection Department, under the Ministry of Justice, along with its judges and staff, shall be transferred to the Supreme Judicial Council as of the date the Council assumes its duties. This shall be implemented in coordination between the Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Minister of Justice. Existing Judicial Inspection Procedures shall remain effective until the Council issues the Judicial Inspection Regulations. 

II. With regards to the Supreme Court:
1. The Standing Panel at the Supreme Judiciary Council shall continue to assume its jurisdiction as provided for in existing laws, pending appointment of the Supreme Court members.

2. Upon appointment of its members, the Supreme Court shall assume the jurisdiction of the Standing Panel at the Supreme Judiciary Council until the Law of Procedure before Sharia Courts and the Law of Criminal Procedure are amended.

3. Upon identification, vacant and occupied administrative and technical positions related to the judiciary shall, pursuant to clause 1(3) of these Procedures, be transferred along with their holders from the Supreme Judiciary Council to the Supreme Court. This shall coincide with the appointment of members of the Supreme Court.

4. A specialized department named "Studies and Research Department" shall be created at the Supreme Court with a sufficient number of Sharia and legal researchers to undertake studies and research requested by Court circuits.

5. Create administrative and technical positions sufficient for the workload of the Supreme Court in the first fiscal year following the entry into force of the Law of the Judiciary. The Technical Committee shall – in conjunction with a representative of the Supreme Judicial Council, a representative of the Ministry of Justice, and a representative of the Supreme Court and within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary – set up financial, administrative, and personnel-related arrangements, which assist the Supreme Court in assuming its jurisdiction. The Committee shall also assess the need for creating other technical and administrative positions for the Court.

6. Allocate, in coordination with the Supreme Judicial Council, the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice, a suitable premise for the Supreme Court in ample time prior to assuming its jurisdiction. The Ministry of Finance shall provide necessary funds.

7. All judicial files, books, records and archives falling within the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court shall be transferred from the Supreme Judiciary Council to the Supreme Court, upon the Supreme Court's assumption of its jurisdiction, in coordination between the Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Chief of the Supreme Court.

III.
Issuance of the Royal Order appointing the four judges of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chief of the Supreme Court and its members shall be deemed creation of positions in accordance with the ranks required to be filled pursuant to the Law of the Judiciary and shall thus be incorporated in the budget of the relevant entity.

IV. With regards to Courts of Appeals:
1. The Court of Cassation in Riyadh and the Court of Cassation in Mecca shall Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances 5 continue to assume their jurisdiction set forth in existing laws until they are converted into courts of appeals as stated in paragraph 5 of this clause.

2. Not less than one hundred twenty positions of appeal judges and not less than thirty positions of appeal court chief judges shall be created in the first fiscal year following the entry into force of the Law of the Judiciary.

3. The Supreme Judicial Council shall fill the vacancies provided for in the preceding paragraph through promotion, appointment or transfer. The Council shall address issues related to the workplaces and financial aspects of persons occupying them, pending establishment of the courts of appeals and assumption of their jurisdiction, provided that a sufficient number of appointed or promoted judges be assigned to work in the Court of Riyadh and the Court of Mecca.

4. The Supreme Judicial Council shall increase the number of circuits at the Court of Riyadh and the Court of Mecca.

5. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary, issue a decision to the following effect:

a) With regard to the Court of Cassation in Riyadh:

i. Convert the Court into a court of appeals.

ii. Determine the appropriate number of judges to work in the court.

iii. Limit its jurisdiction to review judgments rendered by first instance courts of general jurisdiction in the Province of Riyadh.

b) With regards to the Court of Cassation in Mecca:

i. Convert the Court into a court of appeals.

ii. Determine the appropriate number of judges to work in this court.

iii. Limit its jurisdiction to review judgments rendered by first instance courts of general jurisdiction in the Provinces of Mecca, Medina and Baha.

c) Establish a court of appeals in the Eastern Province, observing the following:

i. Its seat shall be in the City of Dammam.

ii. Determine the appropriate number of judges to work in this court.

iii. Limit its jurisdiction to review judgments rendered by first instance courts of general jurisdiction in the Eastern Province.

d) Establish a court of appeals in the Province of Qassim, observing the following:

i. Its seat shall be in the City of Buraidah.

ii. Determine the appropriate number of judges to work in this court.

iii. Limit its jurisdiction to review judgments rendered by first instance courts of general jurisdiction in the Provinces of Qassim and Hail.

e) Establish a court of appeals in the Province of Asir, observing the Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances 6 following:

i. Its seat shall be in the City of Abha.

ii. Determine the appropriate number of judges to work in this court.

iii. Limit its jurisdiction to review judgments rendered by first instance courts of general jurisdiction in the Provinces of Asir, Jazan and Najran.

f) Establish a court of appeals in the Province of Jouf, observing the following:

i. Its seat shall be in the City of Skaka.

ii. Determine the appropriate number of judges to work in this court.

iii. Limit its jurisdiction to review judgments rendered by first instance courts of general jurisdiction in the Provinces of Jouf, Northern Borders and Tabuk.

6. Courts of appeals shall assume the jurisdiction of the Court of Cassation, pending amendment of the Law of Procedure before Sharia Courts and the Law of Criminal Procedure, without prejudice to paragraph 9 of this clause.

7. The Technical Committee shall, in conjunction with the Supreme Judicial Council and the Ministry of Justice and within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary, undertake the following:

a) Assess the need for creating other judicial positions for such courts.

b) Determine the needs of each court of appeals regarding administrative and technical positions and create said positions in the first fiscal year following determination.

c) Consider the appropriateness of transferring a certain number of vacant and occupied administrative and technical positions together with their holders from some branches of the Ministry of Justice to such courts.

d) Set up financial, administrative, and personnel-related arrangements, which assist each court to assume its jurisdiction.

8. Allocate a premise for each court of appeals established pursuant to a decision by the Supreme Judicial Council in ample time prior to assuming its jurisdiction, taking into consideration the nature, significance, and volume of work of the courts of appeals. The Ministry of Finance shall provide necessary funds.

9. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, following amendment of the Law of Procedure before Sharia Courts and the Law of Criminal Procedure, specify a transitional period for the courts of appeals to assume their jurisdiction in accordance with the Law of the Judiciary. Cases referred to the Courts of Cassation in Riyadh and Mecca shall continue to be considered by these courts until they are decided. The Ministry of Justice shall be notified of arrangements made to this effect.

10. The Supreme Judicial Council shall set a time plan for the establishment of courts of appeals in the remaining provinces of the Kingdom. The Ministry of Justice shall be provided with such plan in ample time prior to implementation. 

V. With regards to Family Courts:
1. Create a sufficient number of judicial positions for family courts in the first fiscal year following the entry into force of the Law of the Judiciary.

2. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary, issue a decision as follows:

a) Convert the Civil Status Courts in Riyadh and Jeddah into family courts.

b) Determine the appropriate number of judges for each family court.

c) Assign some of the judges currently serving in general courts and summary courts to work in family courts upon assuming their jurisdiction, taking into consideration the volume of work in family courts and general courts.

3. Judges referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be transferred to each family court once the court assumes its jurisdiction.

4. The Technical Committee shall, in coordination with the Supreme Judicial Council and the Ministry of Justice and within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary, undertake the following:

a) Assess the need for creating other judicial positions for such courts.

b) Determine the needs of each family court regarding administrative and technical positions and create said positions in the first fiscal year following determination.

c) Allocate a certain number of vacant and occupied administrative and technical positions in a general court to the family court located in the same province or county.

5. Allocate a premise for each family court established pursuant to a decision by the Supreme Judicial Council in ample time prior to assuming its jurisdiction, taking into consideration the nature and number of disputes considered by family courts. The Ministry of Finance shall provide necessary funds.

6. Family cases considered before general and summary courts, which have not been recorded, shall be referred to family courts within their venue jurisdiction once such courts assume their jurisdiction. This shall be in coordination between the chiefs of the two courts according to arrangements set by the Supreme Judicial Council.

7. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, after amendment of the Law of Procedure before Sharia Courts and the Law of Criminal Procedure, specify a transitional period for family courts to assume their jurisdiction in accordance with the Law of the Judiciary. General and summary courts shall continue to review family cases already recorded until judgment is rendered. The Ministry of Justice shall be notified of arrangements made to this effect. Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances 8

8. The Supreme Judicial Council shall set a time plan for establishment of family courts in the Kingdom’s provinces and counties. The Ministry of Justice shall be provided with a copy of such plan in ample time prior to implementation.

VI. With regards to Penal Courts:
1. Create a sufficient number of judicial positions for penal courts in the first fiscal year following the entry into force of the Law of the Judiciary.

2. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary, issue a decision as follows:

a) Convert existing summary courts into penal courts.

b) Determine the appropriate number of judges for each penal court.

c) Assign a certain number of the judges currently serving in general and summary courts to work in penal courts upon assumption of their jurisdiction, taking into consideration the volume of work of penal courts and general courts.

3. Judges referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be transferred to penal courts once each court assumes its jurisdiction.

4. The Technical Committee shall, in coordination with the Supreme Judicial Council and the Ministry of Justice and within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary, undertake the following:

a) Assess the need for creating other judicial positions for such courts.

b) Assess the status of existing summary courts in terms of financial and personnel-related matters, as well as the status of buildings and requirements for converting them into penal courts.

c) Determine the needs of each penal court regarding administrative and technical positions and create said positions in the first fiscal year following determination.

d) Allocate a certain number of vacant and occupied administrative and technical positions in a general court to the penal court located in the same province or county.

5. Allocate a premise for each penal court established pursuant to a decision by the Supreme Judicial Council in ample time prior to assuming its jurisdiction, taking into consideration the nature and number of disputes considered by penal courts. The Ministry of Finance shall provide necessary funds.

6. Penal circuits affiliated with the Board of Grievances, along with their judges, assistants and positions shall be transferred to penal courts. Penal review circuits, along with their judges, assistants and positions shall be transferred from the Board of Grievances to courts of appeals. This shall follow preparation of the seats of these courts and exercise of their jurisdiction. Said judges and assistants shall continue to work in such courts for at least five Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances 9 years and in the same field from which they were transferred. This shall not preclude assigning them to other circuits for completion of their workload.

7. Cases under the jurisdiction of penal courts, which are filed before general courts, but not yet recorded, shall be referred to penal courts within their venue jurisdiction, once such courts assume their jurisdiction, and in coordination between the chiefs of the two courts as per arrangements set by the Supreme Judicial Council.

8. Criminal cases and records thereof pending before penal circuits and penal review circuits at the Board of Grievances shall be referred, along with their records, to competent penal courts. Records, papers, and files of criminal cases previously decided by the Board shall be transferred to penal courts once said courts assume their jurisdiction. This shall be in coordination between the Supreme Judicial Council and the Administrative Judicial Council without prejudice to venue jurisdiction.

9. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, following amendment of the Law of Procedure before Sharia Courts and the Law of Criminal Procedure, specify a transitional period for penal courts to exercise their jurisdiction. General courts shall continue to consider and decide pending cases. The Ministry of Justice shall be notified of arrangements made in this regard.

10. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, in coordination with the Ministry of Justice and the Higher Institute of the Judiciary, conduct a training program at the Higher Institute of the Judiciary for judges of penal courts and judges of penal circuits at the courts of appeals and at general courts in counties and districts, as well as judges of traffic panels reviewing traffic accidents suits at general courts. Seminars shall be held at the same institute for a period of not less than two months on the Law of Criminal Procedure and other relevant laws, with the participation of experienced judges and other experts.

11. The Supreme Judicial Council shall set a time plan for the establishment of penal courts in the Kingdom's provinces and counties. The Ministry of Justice shall be provided with a copy of such plan in ample time prior to implementation. 

VII. With regards to Labor Courts
Modified
1. Create a sufficient number of judicial positions for labor courts in the first fiscal year following the entry into force of the Law of the Judiciary.

2. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary, issue a decision, as follows:

a) Determine the appropriate number of judges for each labor court.

b) Assign a certain number of judges currently serving in general courts and summary courts to work in labor courts once said courts assume their jurisdiction, taking into consideration the workload of labor courts and general courts.

3. Judges referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be transferred to labor courts once each court assumes its jurisdiction.

4. The Technical Committee shall, in coordination with the Supreme Judicial Council and the Ministry of Justice and within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary, undertake the following:

a) Assess the need for creating other judicial positions for such courts.

b) Assess, in coordination with the Ministry of Labor, the status of existing labor dispute settlement panels in terms of financial and personnel-related matters, as well as the status of buildings and requirements for converting them into labor courts.

c) Determine the needs of each labor court regarding administrative and technical positions, and create said positions in the first fiscal year following determination.

d) Allocate certain vacant and occupied administrative and technical positions in a general court to the labor court located in the same province or county.

5. The work of the panels for labor dispute settlement shall be concluded, and the regulations for proceedings before such panels and Part 14 of the Labor Law, issued pursuant to Royal Decree No. M/51, dated 23/08/1426H, entitled "Commissions for Settlement of Labor Disputes" shall be terminated, upon the lapse of six months from the date thereof, provided that the panels for labor dispute settlement conclude all disputes filed therewith within the specified period, in coordination with the Supreme Judicial Council. Remaining disputes, if any, shall be referred to the labor courts for consideration.

6. Allocate a premise for each labor court established pursuant to a decision by the Supreme Judicial Council in ample time prior to assuming its jurisdiction, taking into consideration the nature and number of disputes considered by labor courts. The Ministry of Finance shall provide necessary funds.

7. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, following the amendment of the Law of Procedure before Sharia Courts and the Law of Criminal Procedure, specify a transitional period for labor courts to assume their jurisdiction as stipulated by the law.

8. Some members of labor dispute settlement panels shall, if deemed necessary, be assigned to work full-time for an appropriate period as consultants in labor courts upon assuming their jurisdiction. This shall be in coordination between the Supreme Judicial Council, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labor. The assigned member shall be deemed on official assignment.

9. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, in coordination with the Ministry of Justice and the Higher Institute of the Judiciary, conduct a training program at the Higher Institute of the Judiciary for judges of labor courts and judges Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances 11 of labor circuits at the courts of appeals and general courts in counties and districts. Seminars on the Labor Law and other relevant laws shall be held at the same institute for a period of not less than two months, with the participation of experienced judges and other experts.

10. The Supreme Judicial Council shall set a time plan for establishment of labor courts in the Kingdom's provinces and counties. The Ministry of Justice shall be provided with a copy of such plan in ample time prior to implementation.

Article Modifiedication
VIII. With regards to Commercial Courts:
1. Create a sufficient number of judicial positions for labor courts in the first fiscal year following the entry into force of the Law of the Judiciary.

2. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary, issue a decision, as follows:

a) Determine the appropriate number of judges for each labor court.

b) Assign a certain number of judges currently serving in general courts and summary courts to work in labor courts once said courts assume their jurisdiction, taking into consideration the workload of labor courts and Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances 10 general courts.

3. Judges referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be transferred to labor courts once each court assumes its jurisdiction.

4. The Technical Committee shall, in coordination with the Supreme Judicial Council and the Ministry of Justice and within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary, undertake the following:

a) Assess the need for creating other judicial positions for such courts.

b) Assess, in coordination with the Ministry of Labor, the status of existing labor dispute settlement panels in terms of financial and personnel-related matters, as well as the status of buildings and requirements for converting them into labor courts.

c) Determine the needs of each labor court regarding administrative and technical positions, and create said positions in the first fiscal year following determination.

d) Allocate certain vacant and occupied administrative and technical positions in a general court to the labor court located in the same province or county.

5. The work of the panels for labor dispute settlement shall be concluded, and the regulations for proceedings before such panels and Part 14 of the Labor Law, issued pursuant to Royal Decree No. M/51, dated 23/08/1426H, entitled "Commissions for Settlement of Labor Disputes" shall be terminated, upon the lapse of six months from the date thereof, provided that the panels for labor dispute settlement conclude all disputes filed therewith within the specified period, in coordination with the Supreme Judicial Council. Remaining disputes, if any, shall be referred to the labor courts for consideration.

6. Allocate a premise for each labor court established pursuant to a decision by the Supreme Judicial Council in ample time prior to assuming its jurisdiction, taking into consideration the nature and number of disputes considered by labor courts. The Ministry of Finance shall provide necessary funds.

7. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, following the amendment of the Law of Procedure before Sharia Courts and the Law of Criminal Procedure, specify a transitional period for labor courts to assume their jurisdiction as stipulated by the law.

8. Some members of labor dispute settlement panels shall, if deemed necessary, be assigned to work full-time for an appropriate period as consultants in labor courts upon assuming their jurisdiction. This shall be in coordination between the Supreme Judicial Council, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labor. The assigned member shall be deemed on official assignment.

9. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, in coordination with the Ministry of Justice and the Higher Institute of the Judiciary, conduct a training program at the Higher Institute of the Judiciary for judges of labor courts and judges Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances 11 of labor circuits at the courts of appeals and general courts in counties and districts. Seminars on the Labor Law and other relevant laws shall be held at the same institute for a period of not less than two months, with the participation of experienced judges and other experts.

10. The Supreme Judicial Council shall set a time plan for establishment of labor courts in the Kingdom's provinces and counties. The Ministry of Justice shall be provided with a copy of such plan in ample time prior to implementation.

IX. With regards to Quasi-judicial Committees and the Like:
1. Notwithstanding the jurisdiction of excluded committees set forth in paragraph 2 of Section Three (General Provisions) of these Procedures, jurisdiction of quasi-judicial committees considering criminal cases, commercial or civil disputes, shall be transferred to the General Judiciary following amendment of the Law of Procedure before Sharia Courts, the Law of Criminal Procedure and the issuance and entry into force of the Law of Procedure before the Board of Grievances. The Committee formed at the Bureau of Experts shall, within a period not exceeding one year from the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary, review the laws affected by such transfer and propose amendments thereto in accordance with the legal procedures. The Committee shall also review the status of the quasi-judicial committees considering administrative disputes whose decisions are subject to appeal before the Board of Grievances, and shall make necessary changes thereon.

2. Positions related to quasi-judicial committees, whose jurisdiction is transferred to the general judiciary (positions of members and supporting positions), shall be transferred. Employees of these committees, who meet the conditions of the judiciary, shall be appointed in judicial or consultative positions as needed, provided that the technical committee, in conjunction with the Supreme Judicial Council, the Ministry of Justice and a representative of the agency concerned, determine the positions, staff and financial allocations, and other items to be transferred from each committee, whose jurisdiction is transferred to the courts. Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances 13

3. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, following amendment of the Law of Procedure before Sharia Courts and the Law of Criminal Procedure and the issuance and entry into force of the Law of Procedure before the Board of Grievances, specify a transitional period for competent courts to assume the jurisdiction transferred to them from quasi-judicial committees. Pending cases and related records, papers, and files shall be transferred from said committees to the general judiciary for adjudication, in coordination between the Supreme Judicial Council and the relevant agencies without prejudice to venue jurisdiction. The Ministry of Justice shall be notified of arrangements made in this regard.

Section 2: Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Board of Grievances
I. With regards to the Administrative Judicial Council:
1. Pending the formation of the Administrative Judicial Council, the Administrative Affairs Committee at the Board of Grievances shall assume the following:

a) Nominate members of the Supreme Administrative Court.

b) Attend to personnel-related affairs of judges, including appointment, promotion, discipline, secondment, transfer and inspection and the like in accordance with conditions set forth in the Law of the Judiciary.

c) Any other jurisdiction assigned to the Administrative Judicial Council pursuant to the Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances.

2. Create a number of administrative and technical positions appropriate for the workload at the Administrative Judicial Council, in the first fiscal year following the entry into force of the Law of the Board of Grievances. The Technical Committee shall, in conjunction with a representative of the Administrative Judicial Council, specify the positions to be created and set up financial, administrative, and personnel-related arrangements, which assist the Administrative Judicial Council in assuming its duties. Said Committee shall, within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Board of Grievances, assess the need for creating other administrative and technical positions for the Council.

3. The Chairman of the Administrative Affairs Committee at the Board of Grievances shall assume the powers of the Chairman of the Administrative Judicial Council provided for in these Procedures, pending the formation of the Administrative Judicial Council.

II. With regards to the Supreme Administrative Court:
1. The Supreme Administrative Court shall, upon naming its members, assume its jurisdiction after issuance of the Law of Legal Proceedings before the Board of Grievances and its entry into force.

2. A number of administrative and technical positions appropriate for the workload at the Supreme Administrative Court shall be created in the first Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances 14 fiscal year following the entry into force of the Law of the Board of Grievances. The Technical Committee shall, in conjunction with a representative of the Administrative Judicial Council and a representative of the Supreme Administrative Court, specify the positions to be created and set up financial, administrative, and personnel-related arrangements, which shall assist the Supreme Administrative Court in assuming its jurisdiction. Said Committee shall, within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Board of Grievances, assess the need for creating other technical and administrative positions for the Court.

3. A specialized department named "Department of Studies and Research" shall be established at the Supreme Administrative Court where a sufficient number of Sharia and legal researchers are appointed to conduct studies and research requested by Court circuits.

4. Allocate, in coordination between the Chief of the Administrative Judicial Council and the Chief of the Supreme Administrative Court, a suitable premise for the Supreme Administrative Court in a timely manner prior to assuming its duties. The Ministry of Finance shall provide necessary funds. 

III.
Issuance of the Royal Order appointing the four judges of the Administrative Judicial Council, the Chief of the Supreme Administrative Court and its members, shall be deemed creation of positions in accordance with the ranks required to be filled pursuant to the Law of the Board of Grievances and shall thus be incorporated in the budget of the Board of Grievances.

IV. With regards to the Administrative Courts of Appeals:
1. The administrative review circuits of the Review Panel at the Board of Grievances shall continue to exercise their jurisdiction set forth under the Rules of Pleadings and Procedures before the Board of Grievances pending conversion of the Panel into an administrative court of appeals.

2. Create not less than 60 positions of appeals court judges, and not less than 20 positions of chiefs of courts of appeals in the first fiscal year following the entry into force of the Law of the Board of Grievances.

3. The Administrative Judicial Council shall fill the vacancies referred to in the preceding paragraph through promotion, appointment or transfer. The Council shall address financial and workplace issues of persons holding said positions, pending creation of administrative courts of appeals and assumption of their jurisdiction.

4. The Administrative Judicial Council shall increase the number of administrative review circuits at the Review Panel.

5. The Administrative Judicial Council shall, within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Board of Grievances, issue a decision as follows:

a) Convert the Review Panel at the Board of Grievances into an Administrative Court of Appeals in the City of Riyadh, observing the following:

i. The Court shall consist of a sufficient number of circuits.

ii. The Court jurisdiction shall be limited to appeals against judgments rendered by administrative courts in Riyadh and Qassim Provinces.

b) Establish an administrative court of appeals in Jeddah County observing Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances 15 the following:

i. The Court shall consist of a sufficient number of circuits.

ii. The Court jurisdiction shall be limited to appeals against judgments rendered by administrative courts in Mecca and Medina Provinces.

c) Establish an administrative court of appeals in the City of Dammam, observing the following:

i. The Court shall consist of a sufficient number of circuits.

ii. The Court jurisdiction shall be limited to appeals against judgments rendered by administrative courts in the Eastern Province and Al-Jouf Province.

d) Establish an administrative court of appeals in the City of Abha, observing the following:

i. The Court shall consist of a sufficient number of circuits.

ii. The Court jurisdiction shall be limited to appeals against judgments rendered by administrative courts in Asir Province.

6. The administrative courts of appeals shall assume the jurisdiction of the administrative review circuits pending the promulgation and implementation of the Law of Legal Proceedings before the Board of Grievances without prejudice to paragraph (1) of this Clause.

7. The Technical Committee shall, in conjunction with the Administrative Judicial Council and within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Board of Grievances, undertake the following:

a) Assess the need for creating other judicial positions for the administrative courts of appeals.

b) Determine the needs of each court of appeals regarding administrative and technical positions, and create said positions in the first fiscal year following determination.

c) Set up financial, administrative, and personnel-related arrangements, which assist each of said courts in assuming its jurisdiction.

8. Allocate a premise for each administrative court of appeals established pursuant to a decision by the Administrative Judicial Council, in ample time prior to assuming its jurisdiction, taking into consideration the nature, significance, and volume of work of the administrative courts of appeal. The Ministry of Finance shall provide necessary funds.

9. The Administrative Judicial Council shall, following the issuance of the Law of Legal Proceedings before the Board of Grievances and its entry into force, specify a transitional period for the administrative courts of appeals to assume their jurisdiction.

10. The Supreme Judicial Council shall set a time plan for establishment of administrative courts of appeals in the other provinces of the Kingdom.

V. With regards to Administrative Courts:
1. The Administrative Judicial Council shall issue a decision converting current Board branches into administrative courts.

2. The Administrative Judicial Council shall set a time plan for establishment of administrative courts in the other provinces of the Kingdom.

3. Create a sufficient number of judicial positions for administrative courts.

4. Allocate a suitable premise for each administrative court established pursuant to a decision by the Administrative Judicial Council, in ample time Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances 16 prior to assuming its jurisdiction. The Ministry of Finance shall provide necessary funds in coordination with the Administrative Judicial Council.

5. The Technical Committee shall, in coordination with the Administrative Judicial Council and within a period not exceeding two years from the effective date of the Law of the Board of Grievances, undertake the following:

a) Assess the need for creating other judicial positions for administrative courts.

b) Determine the needs of each court regarding administrative and technical positions, and create said positions in the first fiscal year following determination.

c) Set up financial, administrative, and personnel-related arrangements, which assist said courts in assuming their jurisdiction.

Section 3: General Provisions
General Provisions
1. The transitional period specified by the Supreme Judicial Council and the Administrative Judicial Council (as the case may be) and set forth in these Procedures, shall not exceed three years from the date of amendment of the Law of Legal Proceedings before Sharia Courts and the Law of Criminal Procedure, and the issuance and entry into force of the Law of Legal Proceedings before the Board of Grievances.

2. The Supreme Judicial Council shall, upon assuming its jurisdiction, conduct a comprehensive study regarding excluded committees (banks, the financial market and customs cases) referred to in Clause (10) of the Organizational Arrangements of the Judicial and Dispute Settlement Bodies, and submit its conclusions within a period not exceeding one year for completion of legal procedures.

3. The Supreme Judicial Council shall coordinate with the Administrative Judicial Council in preparing regulations related to the personnel affairs of judges.

4. The Supreme Judicial Council, the Administrative Judicial Council and the Ministry of Justice, each within their jurisdiction, shall assume the jurisdiction of implementation and follow-up of these Procedures and issuance of executive decisions necessary for implementation.

5. The Supreme Judicial Council, the Administrative Judicial Council and the Ministry of Justice, each within their jurisdiction, upon coordination with the Secretariat of the Ministerial Committee for Administrative Organization, shall submit periodic reports to the King, regarding implementation of these Procedures, including difficulties encountered, proposed solutions, procedures implemented as well as procedures not implemented and reasons for non-implementation.

6. The position of Deputy Minister of Justice shall be deemed created at the rank of "Grade Excellent" as of the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary.

7. A committee shall be formed of representatives, each at a rank not lower than "Grade 12", representing the Supreme Judicial Council, the Administrative Judicial Council, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs, the Secretariat of the Ministerial Implementing Procedures of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances 17 Committee for Administrative Organization, to set a time plan, which includes establishment of permanent premises for the Supreme Judicial Council, the Supreme Court, the Board of Grievances, the Supreme Administrative Court, the courts of appeals, the administrative courts of appeals and other courts provided for in the Law of the Judiciary, and Law of the Board of Grievances, and submit its conclusions to the King for completion of legal procedures.

8. The Ministry of Justice shall, upon coordination with the Supreme Judicial Council, develop technical specifications for construction of court buildings to be established, and specify requirements for leasing of premises for newly-established courts, taking into consideration availability of suitable facilities.

9. The committee formed at the Bureau of Experts at the Council of Ministers assigned to review laws affected by the Organizational Arrangements of the Judicial and Dispute Settlement Bodies, shall resolve issues that may arise in the course of implementing these Procedures.

10. These Procedures shall enter into force as of the effective date of the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of the Board of Grievances.

