These Regulations shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall enter into force from the effective date of the Law.


Release Date
25/8/2022

Statute Type
Regulation

Publish Date
2/9/2022

Statute Status
Active

Statute Release Tool
Commissions and Councils Decisions

Hide Table Content
Implementing Regulations of the Law of Real Estate Registration
chapter 1 Definitions & General Provisions
Article 1
1. In these Regulations, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings assigned thereto in Article 1 of the Law of Real Estate Registration, issued by Royal Decree No. M/91 dated 19/9/1443H, unless the context requires otherwise.
2. The following words and phrases, whenever mentioned in these Regulations, shall have the meanings assigned thereto, unless the context requires otherwise:
REGA: Real Estate General Authority.
Real Estate Database: A digital set of spatial and descriptive data on various types of real estate. This includes different and integrated layers, tables, maps, and features that are stored and interconnected.
Real Estate Sheet: A document held in the Real Estate Registry detailing a property's description, location, physical and legal status, rights, obligations, and modifications thereto.
Registration of Real Estate Dispositions: Documenting original and subordinate rights in rem in the Real Estate Registry (RER).
Survey Works: Technical processes establishing a property’s actual boundaries, lengths, area, coordinates, and necessary maps, according to technical standards.
Absolute Horizontal Accuracy: A measure of a map's accuracy in representing the horizontal positions of objects relative to their true positions on the surface of the Earth typically expressed as the root mean square error of the dataset.
Relative Horizontal Accuracy: The relative size of the confidence ellipse between two points.
Real Estate Map: A digital cadastral base map created for real estate registration and updates.
Cadastral Survey: The process of measuring and recording property boundaries on-site and reflecting them on maps using various surveying devices.
Resolution: The actual distance on the surface of the Earth represented by a single cell in remote sensors.
Vertically corrected Images: Images where vertical displacements of natural and man-made objects are corrected for accurate distance representation on a scaled map.
KSA National Spatial Reference System: A fixed reference system for Cartesian coordinates, longitudes, latitudes, elevation, scale, gravity, and orientation across the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, approved by the General Authority for Survey and Geospatial Information.
Universal Transverse Mercator Coordinate System: A map projection system that converts geographic coordinates into Cartesian coordinates, used for map creation, longitudinal measurements, and area measurements using the Mercator cylindrical projection.
Person: A natural or legal person.
Property Number: The unique number of the real estate sheet in the Real Estate Registry

Article 2
1. A higher real estate registration committee shall be formed at REGA, chaired by REGA’s CEO or his delegate, with six members appointed by a senior official, each with relevant expertise. The Committee shall undertake the following:
a. Propose and recommend the implementation of policies and strategic plans for real estate registration.
b. Propose the identification of real estate areas and necessary implementation plans.
c. Conduct research and studies to develop real estate registration systems, as well as related technical and technological systems, ensuring the use of the latest technology and information tools to implement the provisions of the Law.
d. Propose solutions to implementation issues and provide opinions on matters referred to it concerning the application of the Law of Real Estate Registration.
2. The Committee may seek assistance of experts, specialists, and relevant entities, both public and private, to assist in its duties.

Article 3
1. The Real Estate Register shall be created and managed electronically, with in a way to allow for document storage and archiving, modification, tracking, and user identification.
2. The Real Estate Register shall be divided into real estate areas, each with a unique serial number linked to a specific city, governorate, or center, which shall be the registration number of the real estate area.
3. Each property shall have a real estate sheet within the Real Estate Register.
4. The real estate sheet number in the Real Estate Register shall be unique.
5. A personal index shall be created within the Real Estate Register, assigning each person a dedicated sheet detailing his original and subordinate rights in rem.

Article 4
Real Estate Register-based databases shall be created for utilization and investment purposes, including:
1. Enabling the public sector to spatially integrate its activities and operations to exercise its powers and utilize spatial data to improve its services.
2. Enabling the private and non-profit sectors to utilize spatial data for commercial and nonprofit purposes.

Article 5
Notifications required by the Law and these Regulations shall be delivered through one or more of the following methods:
a. Text messages to the registered mobile number.
b. Emails to the address listed in the Real Estate Register.
c. Any account registered in a government automated system.
d. Registered mail.

Article 6
1. Interested parties may submit a request to correct material errors. The request shall include:
a. Property number.
b. Capacity of the person filing the request.
c. Details of the error to be corrected and required documents.
2. A correction report shall be added to the real estate sheet file, containing:
a. Report number and date.
b. Property number.
c. Error description, cause, and discovery method.
d. Proposed corrective action and supporting documents.
3. REGA may correct material errors upon discovery without a request from interested parties and shall create a report accordingly in accordance with paragraph (2) of this Article.
4. The real estate registrar shall approve requests for material error corrections.
5. Plain material and clerical error corrections shall not affect the provisions of property’s absolute probative force.
6. All corrections shall allow traceability and identification of what was corrected and by whom.
7. REGA shall inform the concerned parties of corrections using the methods provided for in Article 5 of the Regulations.
8. Concerned parties may appeal the correction within (30) days from notification.

Article 7
1. An owner of rights in rem shall have the right to access and view his real estate sheet, including any notes added to the sheet, at no charge.
2. Subject to Article 8 of the Regulations, any person may request information from the Real Estate Register, specifying the requested information and purpose.
3. The CEO or his delegate shall issue a decision classifying certain properties as confidential upon the request of relevant agencies.

Article 8
1. Access to a person’s sheet of rights in rem shall be limited to:
a. The owner of the right or his legal representative.
b. Heirs of a deceased owner.
c. Courts and judicial authorities.
d. Relevant government agencies.
2. Government agencies' requests shall be official, and electronic links with relevant judicial or government bodies may be used for access.

Article 9
1. A real estate area declaration decision shall be announced through any appropriate method as determined in the decision, including one or more of the following:
a. The Real Estate Registry’s electronic platform.
b. Publication in the Official Gazette and a local daily newspaper where the real estate is located.
c. REGA's official social media accounts.
d. Signboards at the real estate area entrances.
2. The real estate area declaration shall include:
a. REGA’s decision number and date for the area declaration.
b. Precise location, boundaries, and an illustrative map of each area.
c. The application process and deadlines for first-real estate registrations.
d. An invitation to concerned parties, including owners and holders of rights in rem, to submit first real estate registration applications within the specified timeframe.
3. The real estate area declaration decision shall be communicated to all parties involved in the first real estate registration upon its issuance.

Article 10
1. Concerned parties or their representatives shall submit an application for the first real estate registration, accompanied by documents evidencing the rights in rem, including, but not limited to:
a. Deed number, date, and source.
b. Documents evidencing rights in rem, if any.
c. Documents related to the property, such as engineering drawings, building and demolition permits, building guarantees, insurance policies, and the like, if any.
2. The applicant shall be notified of the number, date, and time of the application for the first real estate registration by any of the methods provided for in Article 5 of the Regulations.
3. Subject to Article 8(3) of the Law, survey works for the property, subject of registration, shall be carried out.
4. The real estate registrar shall verify the requirements and documents related to the application and approve the first real estate registration.
5. Subject to Article 13 of these Regulations, if the property area in the first real estate registration is less than the area stated in the submitted property deed, the first real estate registration shall not be approved unless the concerned parties agree to the deficiency.
6. REGA shall issue the property registration deed based on the Real Estate Register.

Article 11
1. The Higher Real Estate Registration Committee shall recommend the authority responsible for notarizing real estate dispositions within the declared real estate area during the period of first real estate registration procedures. This shall be specified in the real estate declaration decision.
2. A person to whom a real estate right has been transferred during the period of the first real estate registration procedures, pursuant to paragraph (1) of this Article, shall replace the previous owner in completing the first real estate registration procedures.

Article 12
If there is a duplication or overlap between the title deeds submitted for the same property during the first real estate registration procedures, and the owners fail to reach an agreement, the first real estate registration process will be suspended, the registration will be rejected, and the issue shall be addressed in accordance with Article 21 of the Law

Article 13
If the area stated in the title deed differs from the actual area of the property (whether more or less), the area stated in the deed shall be registered, provided that the discrepancy does not exceed the allowable discrepancies specified in Table (1) below:

Real Estate Area Classification	Error Rate in Lengths	Error Rate in Area	Maximum Allowable Discrepancy
• Urban Areas	1%	2%	Provided that the increase or decrease does not exceed 100 square meters from what is stated in the deed.
• Slum Areas	2.3%	5%	Provided that the increase or decrease does not exceed 300 square meters at maximum from the area stated in the deed.
• Other Areas	3.5%	7%	Provided that the increase or decrease does not exceed 3,500 square meters at maximum from the area stated in the deed.
Table (1): Permissible Discrepancies between Data on the Deed and Actual Area
 

 

Article 14
1. Subject to Article 10(5) of the Regulations, properties may be registered without an application from the concerned parties, provided that the title deed data fully meets legal requirements and the property’s geospatial data is complete.
2. REGA shall notify the concerned parties of the registration using any of the methods provided for in Article 5 of the Regulations.

Article 15
1. Owners of properties located outside the real estate area may apply to the Real Estate Registry to register their properties, subject to the following:
a. Applying to declare the location of their property as a real estate area in accordance with the requirements for such declaration.
b. Providing geospatial data for the location to be included in the declaration. Such geospatial data must meet the specifications required for the first real estate registration.
c. Ensuring that the property, except for state-owned properties, has a title deed that meets legal requirements.
3. REGA shall review the application, consider declaring the area where the property is located as a real estate area, and complete the declaration and registration procedures in accordance with the Law and Regulations

Article 16
The Real Estate Registry shall create a sheet for each property upon registration, including the following information:
1. Property number.
2. Property planning data (e.g., plan number, plot number, block number), if applicable.
3. Property location data (e.g., district and city name).
4. Property boundaries, lengths, and area.
5. Previous title deed number, date, and source.
6. Rights in rem, owners, their details, and ownership percentages.
7. Description of the property (e.g., buildings, fixtures, plantations, factories or other structures such as ports, airports, power lines, pipelines, etc.), if applicable.
8. Details of permits related to the property and its uses (e.g., permits of building, additions, modifications, removals, and the like), if any.
9. Date of the first real estate registration with the Real Estate Registry and date of publication in the owners’ lists.
10. Value of the transfer of rights in rem, if any.
11. Succession of owners of rights in rem after the first registration.
12. Previous and ancillary real estate sheets, if any.
13. Property rights and obligations, creation date, and owners.
14. Miniature image of the final property map, showing all breaks in its sides and their directions, the angle of the break, the total length of each side, and the coordinates of its corners, excluding subdivided real estate units.
15. Name of the real estate registrar of rights in rem and the date of their registration.
16. Statement of restrictions on the disposition of the property, their reasons, and supporting documents.
17. Notes required to be recorded in the Real Estate Register in accordance with the Law and Regulations.
18. Final judgments required to be recorded in the Real Estate Register in accordance with the Law and Regulations.
19. A file containing all documents related to the property, such as engineering drawings, permits, building and demolition permits, appraisal and valuation certificates, insurance policies, and the like). 

Article 17
1. Upon completion of the procedures for first registration, owners’ lists shall be published on the Real Estate Registry’s electronic platform.
2. REGA shall publish these lists by appropriate means.
3. The owners’ lists shall include the following property registration data:
a. Property number.
b. Property location and planning data.
c. Property area.
d. Rights in rem and their owners.
e. The last four digits of the ID of the owners of rights in rem.

Article 18
1. The party objecting to the first real estate registration shall, after filing a claim with the competent court, submit a request to the Real Estate Registry that the claim be noted on the Real Estate Register and the owners’ lists.
2. Any party who is interested may request a proof confirming that the claim has been noted.

Article 19
REGA shall issue the property registration deed based on the Real Estate Register, including the following information:
1. Property number.
2. Rights in rem, owners, their details, and ownership percentages.
3. Value of the transfer of rights in rem, if any.
4. Statement of the property rights and obligations.
5. Property boundaries, lengths, and area.
6. Property location data, (e.g., name of the district and city).
7. Miniature image of the final property map, showing all breaks in its sides and their directions, the angle of the break, the total length of each side, and the coordinates of its corners, excluding subdivided real estate units.
8. Property planning data (e.g., plan number, plot number, block number), if any.
9. General description of the property.

Article 20
1. The real estate registrar is responsible for notarizing all dispositions subsequent to the first real estate registration, in accordance with procedural guidelines prepared by REGA for this purpose.
2. The party to whom the disposition is made shall have access to all the data on the real estate sheet before notarizing the disposition

Article 21
1. Modifications to property data provided by the competent authority may be made in the Real Estate Register, as long as they do not affect rights in rem; otherwise, the consent of right holders is required.
2. The coordinates in the Real Estate Register shall be periodically adjusted according to the level of displacement determined by the competent authority as specified on the approved national geodesic reference.

Article 22
REGA shall electronically record all registered leases if the term of the lease is (10) years or more in the Real Estate Register.

Article 23
1. Any party with a right of first refusal may file a request to record a note in the Real Estate Register indicating their intent to exercise that right.
2. Any party with interest may request a proof confirming that the notation of the intent to exercise the right of first refusal is made.

Article 24
1. The concerned party shall provide the Real Estate Registry with final judgments relating to claims referred Articles 17 and 18 of the Law.
2. REGA shall record final judgments in the Real Estate Register.
3. Final judgments entered in the Real Estate Register shall be kept by the Real Estate Registry.
4. Any interested party may request a proof from REGA confirming the registration referred to in this Article

Article 25
An applicant for registration or notation shall, pursuant to Article 20 of the Law, submit official documents verifying his eligibility for the requested procedure. These documents include:

1. Final judgment decrees.
2. Declaration decrees and acknowledgments from the competent authority.
3. Statements of legal claims.
4. Registered leases.
5. Legally notarized documents.

Article 26
1. The time and date of submitting the application for registration or notation shall be recorded, specifying the day, hour, and minute.
2. If multiple registration or notation applications are submitted to the Real Estate Registry with regards to the same property, they shall be processed in the order received. If there is a conflict or connection between applications, no application may be prioritized over another.
3. Incomplete applications shall be returned to the applicant for completion within (30) days. The applicant may complete the application more than once during this period. If required information are not completed within this period, the registration application shall be deemed void.
4. The applicant shall receive a confirmation of submission of the registration or notation application.

Article 27
Subject to Article 21 of the Law, an applicant for registration or notation in the Real Estate Register shall be notified if his registration or notation application is rejected, his priority is lost, or procedures are suspended, along with the reasons, through any of the methods specified in Article 5 of the Regulations

Article 28
1. For all properties listed in the Real Estate Register, REGA shall record all licenses and certificates related to properties and their uses in the Real Estate Register immediately upon receipt.
2. Such licenses and certificates include, but are not limited to, drilling, building, renovation, demolition, fencing permits, building completion certificates, well-drilling permits, industrial and mining land use permits, wireless tower permits, and permits for booster stations, antennas, electrical rooms, and similar structures.
3. Notations on licenses and certificate shall include noting their number, date, and type in the real estate sheet, along with the date and time of receipt, as well as time and date of registration or notation.
4. Copies of licenses and certificates shall be added to their real estate sheet file after the notation.

Article 29
1. Notifications, provided for in Article 24 of the Law, by the property owner or his representative, shall be made using the designated form for such purpose and accompanied by supporting documents.
2. REGA shall review the documents supporting the application and take the necessary actions regarding the application.
3. REGA shall inform concerned parties of any updates to the Real Estate Register data through any methods outlined in Article 5 of the Regulations

Article 30
1. A register of off-plan property dispositions shall be created at the request of the real estate developer - licensed to sell or lease off-plan properties - after the license for project is issued by the project-licensing authority.
2. The data of off-plan properties shall be recorded in the register before commencing any dispositions, based on information from the project-licensing authority and the authority responsible for real estate unit subdivision.

Article 31
1. The real estate registrar shall document the off-plan property disposition between the parties after creating the register referred to in Article 30 of the Regulations.
2. The real estate registrar shall issue a certificate to that effect, including the data required pursuant to Article 16 of the Regulations.

Article 32
1. Along with the request to transfer data from the register referred to in Article 29 of the Law to the Real Estate Register, the property owner shall submit:
a. A certificate from the project-licensing authority confirming the completion of the off-plan property.
b. A certificate confirming that the property in reality matches the real estate unit subdivision report issued by the relevant subdivision authority.
2. If the property owner fails to submit the request within (30) days, the request to transfer data from the off-plan property register to the Real Estate Register may made, pursuant to a decision by the project-licensing authority. Provided that such request meets the requirements in paragraph (1) of this Article, and REGA shall issue a title deed accordingly.

Article 33
1. Each jointly-owned property shall have a primary sheet, from which a separate real estate sheet shall be created for each subdivided property. Each secondary sheet shall be linked to the primary sheet.
2. Each subdivided property shall have a separate property registration deed.
3. Joint ownership documents issued by the subdivision authority shall be registered in the primary property sheet and referenced in the secondary sheets (e.g., common areas documents, and unit subdivision documents).
4. Geospatial data for each subdivided real estate unit shall be recorded according to data provided by the competent subdivision authority.
5. Except for plain material errors, subdivided real estate unit data may only be modified with the approval of the subdivision authority. If modifications affect other subdivided units, the consent of the concerned parties shall be required.
6. If two or more properties with separate real estate sheets are merged, these sheets shall be combined into a single, new sheet.

Article 34
If two properties are merged, one of which is encumbered by a right in-rem and the other is not, the right shall extend to cover the entire new property. If both properties are separately encumbered by rights in-rem, the approval of right in rem holders shall be required for the merger.

Chapter 2 Geospatial and Surveying Works for Law Application Purposes
Article 35
In the real estate area declaration decision, real estate areas are classified into three levels, as follows:
1. Urban Areas: include properties within urban municipality boundaries and affiliated villages, including properties under royal commissions, economic and industrial cities, Saudi Vision projects, and the like.
2. Populated Slum Areas: include properties located in populated informal settlements outside urban boundaries.
3. Other Areas: include properties outside municipal jurisdiction and populated slum areas, such as agricultural, forest, rural, desert, and mining areas.

Article 36
1. The real estate database shall be designed in accordance with the digital model of real estate survey data and in compliance with the adopted national geospatial standards.
2. This real estate database shall consist of several layers, each containing several levels of data.
3. The digital model of the survey data related to the real estate database shall consider the minimum information and data of the following layers:
a. "Plots" layer.
b. "Images" layer.
c. “Water” layer.
d. "Geology" layer.
e. "Heights" layer.
f. "Land cover" layer.
g. "KSA National Spatial Reference System" layer.
h. "Land use" layer.
i. "Geographical names" layer.
j. “Transport” layer.
k. "Administrative areas" layer.
l. "National address" layer.
m. "Real estate classifications” layer: This layer consists of the boundaries of real estate areas according to the classification of real estate areas in the Kingdom as specified in Article 35 of the Regulations.
n. "Power lines and pipelines" layer: This layer consists of oil, gas, water, and sewage lines, as well as other pipelines, the markers indicating their locations, electrical lines, networks, and the like.

Article 37
1. The meter shall be the standard unit of measurement for length. Distances shall be measured to the nearest centimeter.
2. The square meter shall be the standard unit of measurement for area. Areas shall be measured to the nearest centimeter.
3. When recording coordinates on-site, they shall be recorded to the nearest millimeter

Article 38
1. Surveying shall use the KSA National Geodetic Reference System.
2. The Universal Transverse Mercator Projection System, based on this reference system, shall be applied.

Article 39
The geographic area of the property shall be determined based on the Universal Transverse Mercator Projection System. If the property extends into two geographic areas, the area containing the majority of the property shall be used for the collection of coordinates and the issuance of survey certificates.

Article 40
Each property shall have its information recorded in the real estate database, including the data specified in Article 16 of the Regulations. Such information is essential for issuing a separate real estate map.

Article 41
Each real estate area shall have one map or more real estate maps displaying properties and their assigned numbers. These maps shall be based on the real estate database, and shall be updated regularly when carrying out new survey activities as specified by the Law and Regulations.

Article 42
Article 42
1. Real estate maps shall be created using modern technology, such as recent vertically corrected aerial images with ground control points conforming to the resolution and specifications recommended by the competent authority. All coordinates shall be linked to the primary survey map and comply with the national geodetic reference system. The absolute horizontal accuracy for ground control points at plot and building corners shall be 25 cm or better in urban areas and 200 cm in other areas.
2. Property boundaries may be determined using aerial and satellite images by identifying visible structures, such as fences, walls, or natural markers (e.g., hills or waterways). These structures shall be clear both on the ground and in aerial or satellite images and comply with the geospatial and survey data collection specifications listed in Table (2). If it is difficult to determine the boundaries or higher spatial accuracy is required, a ground field survey shall be conducted.

Specifications	Urban Areas	Populated Slum Areas	Other Areas
Image resolution	5 – 15 cm	15 – 50 cm
Permissible absolute horizontal accuracy of remote sensing data outputs	25 cm	200 cm
Forward overlap ratio	80%	70%
Side overlap ratio	80% - 60%	35%
Spectral resolution	4 band (minimum) RGB NIR	4 band (minimum) RGB NIR
Radiometric resolution	12 bit (minimum)	12 bit (minimum)
Table (2): Technical Specifications for Geospatial and Survey Data Collection

Article 43
1. For the purposes of the first real estate registration, vacant lands shall have ground boundary markers, placed at corners and along boundaries, or by an approved technical method, unless naturally or permanently defined boundaries are identifiable.
2. Subject to paragraph (1) of this Article, the boundary markers for vacant lands shall be placed by a surveyor if markers have not previously been set on the ground by a surveyor or have disappeared.
3. The built boundaries mentioned in paragraph (1) of this Article include walls, fences, as well as streets and roads that define the vacant land.

Article 44
Survey data approved by the competent authority may be used without requiring REGA to conduct further survey work, provided:
a. The data is approved by a competent authority.
b. The data is consistent with title deeds.

Article 45
1. A "Field Survey Work Report" shall be prepared with a property description, on the designated form for such purpose, including:
a. Report number and date.
b. REGA’s decision number and date declaring the real estate area.
c. Property number, block number, plan number, and district name.
d. Property boundaries, corner coordinates, lengths, area, and survey date.
e. Description of the property, buildings, and plantations (if any).
f. Surveying office name, and the names and signatures of engineers and surveyors.
2. REGA may adopt electronic forms for field survey work reports.

Article 46
Primary data shall be provided after the completion of any field land survey, accompanied by a description card of the activities performed, as follows:
a. Type and model of the device used.
b. Survey date and time.
c. Network of reference survey stations or focal points of national geodesic networks used in the survey process.
d. Survey location (city and district names).
e. Coordinates of the work area center based on the geodesic reference system.
f. Surveyor's name, license number, and survey company name.
2. The minimum relative horizontal accuracy shall be maintained for all field land survey activities as indicated in Table (3):
S/N	Real Estate Area Classification	Relative Horizontal Accuracy of the Site (meters)
1	Urban Areas	0.05
2	Slum Areas	0.15
3	Other Areas	0.5
Table (3): Technical Standards of Relative Horizontal Accuracy in Field Survey
3. The standards in Table (3), or higher, shall apply to:
a. Field surveys of vacant lands.
b. Real estate disputes.

Article 47
1. REGA shall maintain a register of surveyors conducting real estate registration surveys, divided by regions and cities in the Kingdom.
2. Surveyors shall meet the following requirements for registration:
a. Hold a license from the competent authority.
b. Complete the qualification program for surveyors specialized in applying the Law of Real Estate Registration.
c. Have a minimum of three years of surveying experience.
3. Registration in the surveyors’ register is valid for three years and renewable upon request submitted at least three months before expiration.
4. Without prejudice to any penalty stated in any other law, REGA shall suspend or cancel the registration of surveyors found guilty of fraudulent acts or serious violations.
5. Registered surveyors shall respond to REGA’s inquiries and provide information on complaints within the specified timeframe.

Article 48
1. Surveyors are prohibited from participating in survey work or first real estate registration under the following conditions:
a. If the surveyor is a relative or an in-law up to the third degree of any owner of rights in rem in the property.
b. If the surveyor, spouse, or relatives up to the fourth degree are in dispute with any owner of rights in rem in the property.
c. If the surveyor is a creditor or debtor of any owner of rights in rem in the property.
d. If the surveyor is directly or indirectly involved in buying or selling properties to be surveyed or registered.
2. Surveyors shall disclose any interests that may compromise impartiality or independence.
3. If any of these conditions arise during work, surveyors shall disclose any changes in writing immediately.

Chapter 3 Concluding Provisions
Article 49
1. Subject to Article 37 of the Law, real estate registrars shall complete the "Real Estate Registrar Qualification Course" with a minimum score of 70%.
2. Notaries public licensed by the Ministry of Justice shall receive a real estate registrar license upon passing the course referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article.

Article 50
The senior official shall issue procedural guidelines for notarizing dispositions subsequent to the first real estate registration of property.

Article 51
These Regulations shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall enter into force from the effective date of the Law.

