The regulation included: Estimation of judicial costs, estimation of judicial costs for requests, final estimation of judicial costs and method of collection, and final provisions.


Release Date
12/4/2022

Classification
Judicary

Statute Type
Regulation

Publish Date
22/4/2022

Statute Status
Active

Hide Table Content
IMPLEMENTING REGULATIONS OF THE LAW OF JUDICIAL FEES
Article 1
The words and phrases used herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in Article 1 of the Law of Judicial Fees.

Chapter 1 Assessment of Judicial Fees
Article 2
1. Subject to Article 3 of the Law, the judicial fee for a case in which a specified amount is claimed shall be assessed based on the percentage of the claimed amount. Such assessment shall be as follows:
a) Five percent if the claimed amount is less than one hundred thousand riyals.
b) Four percent if the claimed amount is one hundred thousand riyals or more and less than five hundred thousand riyals.
c) Three percent if the claimed amount is five hundred thousand riyals or more and less than one million riyals.
d) Two percent if the claimed amount is one million riyals or more.
2. The amount of the claim shall be determined as follows:
a) In financial cases, it shall be determined on the basis of the amount claimed by the plaintiff.
b) In cases relating to the validation, rescission, invalidation, or enforcement of a contract, it shall be determined based on the value of the subject of the dispute as specified in the contract.
c) In cases relating to property ownership disputes, it shall be determined based on the value of the property at the time of filing the case. The value of the property shall be determined based on the sale value of such property and properties adjacent thereto as documented by the Ministry of Justice, as well as other means that would enable the Ministry to determine such value.

Article 3
The judicial fee for a case in which a specified amount is not claimed shall be assessed as follows:
1. In personal claims in criminal cases, the fee shall be ten thousand riyals.
2. In cases heard by a commercial court or circuit, the fee shall be five thousand riyals.
3. In summary cases heard by any court or circuit, the fee shall be three
thousand riyals.
4. In cases heard by a general court, the fee shall be three thousand riyals.
5. In enforcement disputes, the fee shall be three thousand riyals.
6. In cases heard by a labor court or circuit, the fee shall be two thousand riyals.

Article 4
In cases in which both a specified amount and an unspecified amount are
claimed, the fees for each claim shall be determined in accordance with the provisions provided for in the Law and these Regulations.

Chapter 2 Assessment of Judicial Fees for Motions
Article 5
The judicial fee for an immediate enforcement motion shall be five hundred riyals. The judicial fee for other enforcement motions shall be two percent of the claimed amount, provided that such fee is not less than five hundred riyals and not more than ten thousand riyals.
The person against whom the enforcement order is issued shall bear the judicial fees of the enforcement motion, unless it is established that the person who filed the motion is not entitled to the claim; in such case, the person who filed the motion shall bear the full judicial fees. If the person who filed the motion is not fully entitled to his claim, he shall bear the judicial fees in proportion to the part to which he is not entitled.

Article 6
The judicial fees of the motions provided for in Article 7 of the Law shall be assessed as follows:
1. For motions for reconsideration, the fee shall be ten thousand riyals.
2. For motions for cassation, the fee shall be seven thousand riyals.
3. For motions for appeal, the fee shall be five thousand riyals.
4. For motions for joinder filed by litigants, motions for disqualification, motions for correction or clarification of a judgment, and motions for stay of execution of a judgment, the fee shall be two thousand riyals.
5. For incidental motions, the fee shall be one thousand riyals.
6. For motions for continuance filed by a litigant in a case suspended by agreement prior to the expiration of the agreed-upon suspension period, the fee shall be one hundred riyals.

Article 7
The judicial fees for the motions provided for in Article 8 of the Law shall be as follows:
1. Motions filed by a person with interest to obtain a certified copy of the case papers or records, whether in paper or electronic form, or documents or papers in the possession of the court, the fee shall be one hundred riyals.
2. Motions filed by a person with interest to access case papers or records, whether in paper or electronic form, the fee shall be fifty riyals.
3. Motions to obtain a replacement copy of a judicial document, the fee shall be one hundred riyals.

Chapter 3 Final Assessment and Collection of Judicial Fees
Article 8
The competent department, to be designated by the Minister of Justice, shall issue the final assessment of the judicial fees following conclusion of the case, and the party required to pay the fees shall be notified to pay such fees. Fees may not be collected from said party except after the lapse of the period prescribed for objecting to the assessment or after the issuance of a decision on such objection.

Article 9
Except for motions for cassation and reconsideration, the competent
department, to be designated by the Minister of Justice, shall issue the final assessment of the judicial fees for the motion after rendering a decision thereon, and the party required to pay the fees shall be notified to pay such fees. Fees may not be collected from said party except after the lapse of the period prescribed for objecting to the assessment or after the issuance of a decision on such objection.

Article 10
The assessment of judicial fees shall be in Saudi riyals and shall not include fractions of a riyal.

Chapter 4 Concluding Provisions
Article 11
Private sector entities licensed to carry out supporting services for the
application of the provisions of the Law must, in addition to fulfilling the legal requirements, meet the following conditions:
1. The licensee must be a company licensed in the Kingdom to provide the service subject of the license.
2. The licensee must have at least three years of experience in providing the service subject of the license.
3. The license must be for a specified term.
4. The licensee must have the technical expertise and financial capabilities required to provide the service subject of the license, as determined by the Ministry of Justice.
5. The licensee must not have an actual or potential conflict of interest.
6. The licensee must maintain the confidentiality of any information he
becomes privy to in the course of providing the service subject of the license; such obligation shall remain binding even after the expiration of the license.
7. The licensee must abide by the special technical conditions as determined by the Ministry of Justice.
The Ministry of Justice shall oversee the licensee’s activities.

Article 12
Judicial fees shall be collected in accordance with applicable legal provisions.

Article 13
For the purpose of managing the collection of fees, objections, exemptions, and exceptions referred to in the Law and these Regulations, the Ministry of Justice shall open a current account for the deposit of collected judicial fees; such fees shall then be deposited in the Ministry of Finance’s current account with the Saudi Central Bank.

Article 14
The Minister of Justice shall, in coordination with the President of the Supreme Judicial Council, issue the necessary procedures for objecting to the competent department’s decision on the assessment of judicial fees.

Article 15
The procedures provided for in the Law and these Regulations shall be carried out at any time using approved electronic means. If the use of electronic means is not feasible, such procedures may be carried out using ordinary methods.

Article 16
The Minister of Justice shall issue the decisions necessary for the implementation of the provisions of these Regulations.

Article 17
These Regulations shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force on the date the Law enters into force.

