The Regulation included:
- Definitions, Determination of the juvenile’s age, Recording the juvenile's claim and hearing his testimony, Arrest of the juvenile, The juvenile of unknown identity, Request for extension of the detention period, Safeguarding the juvenile, and prohibition of causing him harm, Interrogation with the juvenile, Social report on the juvenile’s situation, Social probation of the juvenile, Special record for the juvenile, Conditional release parole of the juvenile, and Publication and entry into force.  


Release Date
1/12/2020

Classification
Other

Statute Type
Regulation

Publish Date
11/12/2020

Statute Status
Active

Statute Release Tool
Council of Ministers Resolution No. 237 December 1, 2020

Hide Table Content
implementing Regulations of the Juveniles Law
Article 1
In these Regulations, the following words shall have the meanings assigned thereto:
1. Law: Juveniles Law.
2. Regulations: Implementing Regulations of the Law.
3. Ministry: Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development.
4. Juvenile: Any male or female who has attained the age of seven and has not attained the age of 18.
5. Court: The court, or circuit, which has jurisdiction over juvenile cases.
6. Juvenile Home: A facility affiliated with the Ministry that has segregated areas for the housing of male and female juveniles and segregated areas for detained male and female juveniles.

Article 2
In the absence of a reliable official document determining the juvenile’s age, the arresting authority shall immediately refer him to the competent medical authority for an urgent age assessment.

Article 3
1. Places within the juvenile home shall be designated for the recording of the juvenile’s claim and hearing his testimony. Such places shall be located away from the places designated for detention in order for the juvenile to feel safe and secure.
2. If a juvenile does not carry proof of identity, his claim shall be recorded, and his testimony shall be heard by the head of the arresting authority or his designee, and under his responsibility and in the presence of a representative from the Ministry, or in a manner that ensures the presence of more than one person.
3. Subject to paragraph (1) of this Article, the juvenile's claim shall be recorded, and his testimony shall be heard in detail so as to help uncover the truth and ensure that he is not summoned in the future, using a form prepared in coordination with the Public Prosecution.

Article 4
1. If a juvenile is arrested in flagrante delicto, his guardian, or the person acting in such capacity, shall be immediately notified by available means. A report to this effect shall be prepared.

2. If a juvenile is arrested in flagrante delicto, the law enforcement officer shall hand him over to the juvenile home immediately upon arrest, provided that committing the juvenile to the home takes place in the presence of more than one person.

3. In other than cases of flagrante delicto, the law enforcement officer shall not arrest the juvenile if he exhibits any signs precluding his arrest, such as illness or the like. A report to this effect shall be prepared, and the Public Prosecution shall be notified to take necessary action.

4. The juvenile's case file shall be referred to the Public Prosecution immediately upon arrest.

5. Handcuffs and shackles may not be used during the arrest of a juvenile, except in cases of resistance.

6. Upon the arrest of a juvenile, both the juvenile and his guardian, or the person acting in such capacity, must be informed of the following:
a) The reasons for his arrest and the accusation made against him.
b) His right to seek the assistance of an agent or attorney during pre-investigation, investigation, and trial.

Article 5
According to the provision stipulated in Article 6 of the Law, if the identity of the juvenile committed to the juvenile home is not known, the notification shall be deemed valid if submitted to the juvenile home, and the Ministry of Interior shall be informed of the same.

Article 6
A request to extend a juvenile's detention for one or more successive periods, as specified in Article 9 of the Law, shall be submitted before the expiration of the current detention period. If the period expires without a decision issued on its extension or if the court rejects the request to extend the detention, the juvenile shall be immediately handed over to his guardian, or the person acting in such capacity.

Article 7
Upon handing the juvenile over to his guardian, or the person acting in such capacity, such guardian or person shall be required to provide the necessary guarantees that ensure the safety and protection of the juvenile.

Article 8
1. The interrogation of a juvenile shall be conducted inside the juvenile home, in a place where he feels safe and secure.
2. If it is in the best interest of the juvenile that the Public Prosecution conducts the interrogation in a place outside the juvenile home, the necessary measures shall be taken to ensure that the juvenile feels safe and secure. Interrogation in such places must not result in any adverse psychological, social, behavioral, or educational effect on the juvenile.

Article 9
1. The juvenile home shall, upon committing the juvenile thereto, immediately prepare a social report on the juvenile’s situation, which shall include all relevant information that may assist the judge in rendering a judgment; the factors that may have led to his delinquency; and its recommendations on the appropriate measures for correcting his behavior in relation to the familial, social, psychological, material, and educational aspects.
2. In all cases, the juvenile home shall submit the social report to the court every 15 days during the first 90 days of committing the juvenile to the juvenile home. Upon the lapse of such period, the report shall be submitted every 30 days and when requested by the court.

Article 10
1. The court shall, when imposing the measures provided for in Article 15 of the Law, determine the periods within which the agency entrusted with enforcing such measures must submit a report on the juvenile’s situation.
2. Juvenile probation, provided for in Article 15(1)(e) of the Law, shall include monitoring the juvenile's behavior in his social environment using modern monitoring tools, unless the court stipulates a specific means of monitoring.
3. The relevant agencies provided for in Article 15(4) of the Law may coordinate with civil society associations and organizations to enforce the measures imposed by the court, unless the court decides otherwise.

Article 11
The juvenile's record, provided for in Article 19 of the Law, shall include information regarding judgments rendered against him.

Article 12
Subject to Article 20(1) of the Law, the court may, upon releasing a juvenile offender on parole, require any guarantees it deems appropriate based on the juvenile’s condition and circumstances.


Article 13
These Regulations shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force 30 days from the date of publication.

