.


Release Date
21/5/2014

Statute Type
Regulation

Publish Date
21/5/2014

Statute Status
Active

Hide Table Content
Judicial Inspection Regulations
CHAPTER ONE Definitions
Article 1
The following terms, mentioned in these regulations, shall have the meanings corresponding to them below, unless otherwise stated within the context: 
The Regulations: The Judicial Inspection Regulations 
The Council: The Supreme Judicial Council 
The Chairman: The Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council 
The Department: The Department for Judicial Inspection  
The Head of the Department: The Head of the Department for Judicial Inspection. 
Inspection: the review and examination of the work, actions, and performance of the person being inspected, for the purpose of collecting information to apprise on their competency and care in performing the duties of his office.  
The Inspector: The judge appointed by the Supreme Judicial Council to conduct the inspection or investigation. 
The Members: The Judicial Inspectors 
The Judge Subject of the Inspection: a judge of the Courts of Appeal or Courts of First-Instance. 
The Investigation: the questioning of those concerned with the complaint filed by or against the judge, in matters relating to his work, and the review of the complaint’s documentation to verify its validity.   
The Investigator: The Judicial Inspector 
The Investigation Record: a file prepared by the investigator, containing the number and date of the assignment order, the necessary data, the complaint, the response to that complaint, the violations being investigated, the response to them, the discussions, the inspection, the facts, the evidence, and all relevant procedures. 
The Investigation Report: a report containing the investigation record’s conclusion, outcomes, and any opinions or recommendations, if applicable. 
Judicial Follow-up: general monitoring of the courts’ operations, functioning, and the judges’ care in performing the duties of their office. 
The Task: the inspection, investigation, or follow-up. 
The Assignment: the mission order issued by the competent party. 
The Committee: The committee is who examine inspection reports and challenges. 

Article 2
Deciding on necessary measures, and interest, when mentioned in these regulations, shall fall on the person so assigned to.

CHAPTER TWO General Provisions
Article 3
1-The inspection and the investigation shall be conducted by a judicial inspector with a rank higher than that of the judge subject of the inspection or investigation, or having seniority, if both of them hold the same rank. 
2-Paragraph (1) of this article shall not apply to The judicial follow-up.  

Article 4
1-If the Head of the Department and its members were unable to perform this task, for any reason, the Council shall decide to appoint the appropriate person from a different department within the judiciary to carry out the task. 
 
2-If the quorum of the committee mentioned in Art. 24 of these regulations is not reached by the Head of the Department and its members, for any reason, the Chairman shall decide to task the appropriate persons from a different department within the judicial system, to secure the quorum.    

Article 5
By virtue of a written permission from the Head of the Department, the assigned inspector shall review the inspected judge’s file in the confidential records within the Department, if needed. 
 

Article 6
Once the inspector initiates his duty, he shall inform the Chief of the Court, or his deputy, of the content of his mission, in writing, indicating the number and date of the assignment order. He shall request that the concerned party be notified, unless the mission requires otherwise, after the approval of the chief 

Article 7
In the event of member recusal and impeachment, the provisions of the Law of Civil Procedures shall apply, with the exception of fee collection. The request for this matter shall be submitted, for judgement, to the Head of the Department, whose decision on the matter shall be final. 

CHAPTER THREE The Formation and Competence of the Department of Judicial Inspection
Article 8
Judicial Inspection is a judicial monitoring department, under the Supreme Judicial Council, charged with conducting inspections and investigations. It provides general monitoring over the operations of the courts and their judges, as well as the progress and enhancement of judicial performance. 

Article 9
The Department shall be composed of a Head of Department and an Assistant, both holding rank no less than a Court of Appeal Judge, and an adequate number of full-time members, selected by the Council from the judges of the Courts of Appeal and Courts of First Instance. 

Article 10
The members shall: 
1-Hold the rank of Vice Chief of Court “B” or above. 
2-Have an experience of no less than (8) years in the judiciary. 
3-Have an (above average) rating in the last two previous reports. 
4-Not have been subjected to the reprimand penalty by the Council. 

Article 11
1-The Department shall have a General Panel consisting of the Head of the Department, who shall also be the Chairman of the Panel, his assistant, and the members. It shall convene with the quorum of two-thirds of its members, at least twice a year, and issue its decisions with the majority of the attendees. 
2-The Department shall establish other general departments as necessary. The Department shall have a sufficient number of employees, including consultants, researchers, administrators, clerks, and others. 
 

Article 12
In addition to the other responsibilities mentioned in these regulations, the Department shall be responsible for the following: 
1-Regular inspection of the judges of Courts of Appeal and Courts of First Instance for the purpose of gathering information which would lead to determining their competence level and the extent to which they are keen on performing their duties.

2-Urgent and partial inspection, where needed, of the judges’ work, to determine the extent to which they are keen on performing their duties.

3-Mentor inspection of the judges’ work during their first year in office. 
 
4-Assessment and follow-up of trainee judges and their work. 
 
5-Review of complaints presented by or against the judges with respect to their work, referred to them by the Chairman or his deputy.  
 
6-Investigation of complaints presented by or against the judges with respect to their work, referred to them by the Council. 
 
7-Preparation of the petition for disciplinary action. 
 
8-Follow-up on the Courts’ operation and ensure regularity.    
 
9-Review of the outcome of the courts’ operations and statistics in the entire system or of those requested by the Department from the judges, and following-up on delayed and complicated cases. 
 
10-Assigning an inspector, or more, when necessary, with reviewing the facts that need urgent attention and gathering the necessary data, following the Chairman’s, or his deputy’s, approval.

11-Preparation of the yearly plan to inspect the work of the judges subject to inspection.

12-Detection of issues, challenges, and obstacles that hinder the work of the judicial system, based on the outcomes of the judicial inspection, and proposal of solutions. 
 
13-Proposal of quality means and procedures to progress and enhance judicial performance, based on the outcomes of the judicial inspection.    
14-Conducting studies and providing suggestions that could elevate the performance of judicial inspection. 
 
15-Any other action requested by the Council, or the Chairman, according to their jurisdiction.

Article 13
In addition to the other responsibilities mentioned in these regulations, the Head of the Department shall be responsible for the following: 
1-Supervising the members and dividing the work among them. 
 
2-Monitoring the Department’s operations and employees, and determining their responsibilities by a decision issued by him. 
 
3-Presenting a disciplinary complaint to the Disciplinary Department of the Council upon the Chairman’s request. The Head of the Department may delegate this task to one of the Department’s members. 
 
4-Presenting a comprehensive report to the Council at the end of each year, including the achievements, obstacles, and recommendations to address them. 
 
5-Decide on conflicts or issues among members. His decision on the matter shall be final. 
 
6-Any other action requested by the Council, or the Chairman, according to competence. 

Article 14
1-The Assistant shall assume the responsibilities of the Head of the Department in his absence. 
 
2-The Head of the Department may delegate some of his responsibilities or prerogatives to his Assistant. 

Article 15
The General Panel of Judicial Inspection shall be responsible for the following: 
1-Determining the general principles of judicial inspection procedures. 
 
2-Standardizing the course of action for judicial inspection. 
 
3-Considering and addressing the issues, challenges, and obstacles encountered during judicial inspection and ways to solve it. 
 
4-Setting action plans for judicial inspection. 
 
5-Adopting directional programs to establish judicial inspection standards and their application templates. 
 
6-Adopting templates required for judicial inspection actions. 
 
7-Any other work requested by the Head of the Department. 

CHAPTER FOUR Inspection Procedures for Judges’ Work
Article 16
Inspection of the members of the judiciary shall be conducted at least once and not more than twice a year. 

Article 17
1-The Public Department for Judicial Performance and Evaluation shall prepare the inspection yearly plan for judges subject to inspection, which shall be adopted by the Council. It shall include the number of inspectors, the number of inspected judges, the courts included in the inspection, the work subject to inspection, the inspection location, the duration of the assignment, and the delivery date. 
 
The Public Department shall prepare one or more plans complementing the initial plan, if necessary, which shall be adopted by the Council. 
 
2-The Public Department for Judicial Follow-up shall prepare the yearly plan to monitor court operations and regularity, which shall be adopted by the Chairman. 
 
3-The Head of the Department shall issue Hagi-2010  for the task mentioned in paragraphs (1 and 2) of this Article for every inspector, based on the yearly plan mentioned herein, a sufficient period of time before the start of the task. 

Article 18
1-The inspection shall be conducted at the Department’s headquarters, or at the court, based on the Chairman’s decision. 
 
2-If the inspection is to be conducted at the Department’s headquarters, it shall involve the review of the work subject to inspection, through the comprehensive system, or by having a photocopy of the work under inspection sent to the Department’s headquarters. 

Article 19
1-The inspector shall restrict his actions to the terms specified in the yearly plan to inspect the work of the judges subject to inspection, mentioned in paragraph 1 of Art. (17) of these regulations. 
 
2-Where necessary, the Council may request the inspection of all actions, or certain cases or matters. 
 
3-The inspection shall not include the validating judgements issued by the Supreme Court. 

Article 20
1-The inspector shall prepare a report on the inspected judge’s work, according to the following standards: 
a-The characterisation of the case, its validity, and the soundness of its procedures. 
b-The application of laws and instructions. 
c-carry out  and mastering the work. 
d-The justification of judgments. 
e-Validity of the judgment, accuracy of pronounce it and their coverage of the requests. 
f-The use of proper wording and the respect of linguistic, grammatical, and orthographic rules.   
g-Fulfilling the job’s obligations. 
h-The inspected judge’s respect of the observations made regarding his work in the previous report.

2-The proficiency of the inspected judge shall be determined by the inspector based on recurring observations, or lack thereof, the validated judgements and the overturned judgements and the reasons thereof, the statistical data, the Improvement aspects made by the inspected judge.

3-The work of judge of the Courts of First Instance who is in the probation period will be inspected according to their judicial expertise.

4-The Department shall prepare guiding program and applied templates for the abovementioned standards for its members. 

Article 21
1-The inspection report shall include the following: 
a-The number and date of the report. 
b-The name and judicial rank of the inspector, as well as the assignment number and date. 
c-The name and judicial rank of the inspected judge, the name of the court, and his position in the court, and the aspect of his work during the inspection. 
d-The observations made by the inspector on the inspected judge’s work, based on the standards mentioned in Art. (20). 
e-The grounds or rationale of the observations, attaching an example of the subject of the observation (report, document, or other). 
f-The number and date of the case, subject of the observation, the number of the report or record, and its sheet. 
g-If the observation is repeated, it suffices to mention it, citing three examples of it. 
h-The positive and negative aspects of the inspected judge’s work. 
i-The rating of the inspected judge’s proficiency. 
j-Any other information the inspector considers necessary for the report.

2-The inspector shall attach a signed statistical report of the inspected judge’s work during the inspection.    

Article 22
The inspector may attend, when necessary, the court sessions of the inspected judge, without disrupting the judge’s sovereignty over the sessions, and record the positive and negative aspects he witnesses in his report. 

Article 23
Upon completion, the inspector shall present his report and annexes to the Public Department for Judicial Performance and Evaluation, along with a signed memorandum, during the period specified in the yearly plan mentioned in paragraph (1) of Art. (17). The reports shall be recorded at the Public Department for Judicial Performance and Evaluation on the day of their filing.  

Article 24
1-The Head of the Department shall form one or more committees to examine and challenge the inspection reports. It shall be named “The Committee for the Examination of Inspection Reports and Challenges” and consist of a chair and two members, chosen by the members. 
 
2-The chair and two members of the committee shall both hold a rank higher than that of the inspected judge, or have seniority [in the service], if both of them hold the same rank. 
 
3-The above condition shall be applicable to one of the members at least with respect to the author of the report, when examining the report. 
 
4-The mandate of the chair and members of the committee shall be for one renewable year. 
 
5-The committee shall have one or more secretaries under the supervision of the chair of the committee. 
 
6-In the absence or indisposition of the committee’s chair or any of its members, the Head of the Department shall appoint in writing one of the committee’s members who fulfil the requirement of paragraph (2) of this Article, as replacement.   
 
7-The Head of the Department may relieve the chair and two members of the committee of the inspection and investigative duties for the duration of their service within the committee. 
 
8-The Head of the Department shall provide the Chairman and the chair of the committee with a copy of every decision made regarding this matter. 

Article 25
1-The committee shall examine each report and annexes separately. 
 
2-The committee shall decide in favour of the report, or against its outcomes, and shall provide arguments for its decision.  
 
3-If the committee approves the report, it shall determine what observations to carry or dismiss, if any, along with the reasons for dismissal, the positive aspects, as well as the negative aspects that the committee shall see appropriate to highlight. 
 
4-The committee may uphold, upgrade or downgrade the proficiency rank proposed by the inspector, with justification.   
 
5-The committee may request, as necessary, the following: 
 
a-A clarification from the inspector when needed and discuss the content of the report. 
 
b-The completion of the missing inspection elements in the report. 
 
c-To redo the inspection by another inspector, through a recommendation with justification to the Head of the Department. The Head of the Department shall issue a decision accepting or rejecting the recommendation. The decision on the matter shall be final. 
 
6-Decisions in the committee shall be made by majority votes. If the committees is debating more than two opinions, the Head of the Department shall task, by decision, one of the members who fulfil the requirement of paragraph (2) of Art. (24) of these regulations, with being the defining vote, to reach a majority. The minority shall argues its point of view with justification. 
 
7-The committee shall conclude the decision by signing and stamping every paper of the decision with the official seal of the Public Department for the Examination of Inspection Reports and Challenges. 
 
8-The committee shall provide the inspector with a copy of its decision.  

Article 26
1-The following ratings shall be used in evaluating the proficiency of the inspected judge:  
Distinguished, Above Average, Average, and Below Average. 
 
2-The ratings used in evaluating the proficiency of the inspected judge shall be as follows: 
a-“Distinguished” equals an evaluation grade of 90/100. 
b-“Above average” equals an evaluation grade ranging between 76 and 89. 
c-“Average” equals an evaluation grade ranging between 60 and 75. 
d-“Below average” equals an evaluation grade less than 59.  

3-The Department of Judicial Inspection shall create an internal system to classify the ratings according to the standards mentioned in Art. (2), to be adopted by the Head of the Department. 

Article 27
1-The Department shall immediately send a (true) copy of the committee’s decision and the inspector’s approved decision to the inspected judge, while keeping the original copies with the committee, until it receives a challenge, or not, from the inspected judge or the expiration of the deadline to contest the decision. 
 
2-The inspected judge shall inform the Department of the receipt of the documents mentioned in paragraph (1) of this Article in writing within (5) working days of the receipt date, even if he does not wish to contest the decision, mentioning the date of the document’s receipt. 

Article 28
1-The inspected judge shall present his challenge in writing, if he wishes to contest to the inspector’s report and the committee’s decision, within (30) days of the document’s receipt. His right to contest the decision shall be waived, should he pass that deadline, unless he presents an excuse approved by the Council.  
 
2-The inspected judge’s challenge shall include the number and date of the committee’s decision, the number and date of the inspector’s report, the observations being challenged, the justifications supporting the objection, and the objecting judge’s signature on every paper of the objection’s documents, along with the supporting documentation. 

Article 29
1-Upon receipt of the inspected judge’s challenge, the committee shall issue a opinion memorandum stating the complete or partial acceptance, or rejection of the challenge. The committee shall uphold the proficiency rating of the inspected judge accordingly, or raise it, with justification. 
 
2-The committee shall sign each paper of the opinion memorandum and stamp it with the official seal of the Public Department for the Examination of Inspection Reports and Challenges.   

Article 30
The Department shall refer the challenge, with the attached opinion memorandum, the original decision of the committee, and the original report and annexes of the inspector to the Council within (15) days of the Department’s receipt of the challenge. 

Article 31
1-The Council shall decide on the challenge after reviewing the documents mentioned in Art. (30) of these regulations. 
 
2-The Council may apply the necessary measures to evaluate the proficiency of the inspected judge. 
 
3-The Council may listen to the statements of the inspected judge, if necessary. 
 
4-The decision of the Council shall be final on this matter. 
 
5-The original documents shall be returned to the Department to be kept in the inspected judge’s file. Copies of these documents shall be kept in the inspector’s file. 
 
6-The challenging judge shall be informed of the Council’s decision through the Department, in writing. 

Article 32
The provisions of inspection and decision contesting mentioned in these regulations shall be applied when inspecting a department consisting of more than one judicial member. The Department shall create a guide on inspection procedures for judicial group work, to be adopted by the Council. 

Article 33
A single report shall be made of the inspected judge who has worked in more than one department as original member, or more than one court. The provisions of inspection and decision contesting mentioned in these regulations shall be applied when inspecting his work. 

CHAPTER FIVE Complaints and Investigation
Article 34
Complaints of judges on matters relating to their work shall be presented to the Chairman. 

Article 35
Complaints against judges on matters relating to their work shall be presented to the Chairman, or his deputy. 

Article 36
1-The Department shall create guidelines for accepting complaints against a judge, to be adopted by the Chairman. 
 
2-The Chairman, or his deputy, may accept a complaint against a judge, if it contains facts that he considers worth examining, even if it does not fulfil all requirements. 

Article 37
The Chairman, and his deputy, may present a complaint to the Council, if they consider the content of the complaint mentioned in Art. (35) of these regulations requires a direct investigation with the judge. 

Article 38
1-The Department shall inform the judge of the complaint, when necessary, for response, after examining the complaint and ensuring it fulfils the acceptance conditions. 
 
2-The judge shall send his response in writing to the Department, within (30) days of the complaint receipt date, unless the Department’s letter specifies a different deadline. The judge shall attach relevant documentation to his reply, if applicable. 
 
3-The Public Department of Cases shall handle the examination of the complaint, the judge’s response, and the attached documentation. 
 
4-The examination’s outcomes shall be presented to the Head of the Department, accompanied by the opinion memorandum, and justification, within (15) days of the receipt of the complaint’s response.      
5-If it comes to the attention of the Head of the Department that there is a need to investigate the complaint, he shall send a recommendation to the Council, through the Chairman, specifying the violations that require an investigation, for the Council to decide on the matter. 

Article 39
If the Council decides to investigate, the Chairman shall appoint, in writing, the investigator, be it the Head of the Department or any of the members, specifying the duration of the task and the investigation location, should the investigator not be named in the investigation decision.

Article 40
1-The administrative investigation shall be conducted at the headquarters of the department or the court, based on the Chairman’s decision. 
 
2-The location of the criminal investigation shall be decided by the Council. 

Article 41
1-The investigation shall be conducted by the Head of the Department or one of the members, of a rank no less than a Court of Appeal Judge. 
 
2-The Council may task any appropriate person from the judicial system, of a rank no less than a Court of Appeal Judge, of conducting the investigation 
 
3-A previous investigation shall be sufficient for the Chairman to file a disciplinary suit, if the investigation in question was conducted by an inspector that fulfils the requirements mentioned in paragraph (1) of this Article. 

Article 42
1-The investigation shall be limited to the violations specified in the Council’s decision, and the justification of their validity.    
 
2-If the investigator uncovers a violation different from those being investigated, he shall inform the Head of the Department with another letter, unless the Council’s decision permits him to investigate all violations that might come to light during the investigation. 

Article 43
1-The investigation shall be in the form of a direct, written question and answer. 
 
2-The investigated judge shall reply with an answer that covers all aspects of the investigator’s question, satisfying the inquiry. 
 
3-The investigator shall sign at the end of each question and the investigated judge shall sign at the end of each answer. 
 
4-During the investigation, the investigated judge may amend his answer, adding the amendment to the side and the end of the answer’s text, as appropriate. The investigator and the investigated judge shall sign at the end of the amendment. 
 
5-The investigation shall cover all the violations mentioned in the Council’s decision. 

Article 44
1-The investigator may, when necessary, call upon witnesses to listen to their testimonies and to the statements of all persons that may help reach the truth. This shall be done in the presence of the investigated judge, unless he wishes otherwise, or the investigation requires it to be done in his absence. The witness, and all those who presented a statement, shall sign their testimonies or statements. 
 
2-The witnesses, their testimonies, and the statements taken during the investigation, as well as any other evidence, shall be presented to the investigated judge, his reply to which shall be noted down. 
 
3-The complainant, or their representative, shall not attend the investigation with the investigated judge, unless it is necessary to address any of the facts included in the investigation. 

Article 45
The investigation shall remain confidential, solely attended by those required for the interest of the investigation, with the investigator’s permission. 

Article 46
The investigator may investigate and interrogate, when necessary, the courts’ staff and the relevant Ministry of Justice’s departments, with respect to the subject of the investigation.

Article 47
1-The investigator shall include in the investigation record the number and date of the assignment order, the necessary data, the complaint, the response to that complaint, the violations being investigated, the response, the discussions, the inspection, the facts, the evidence, and all relevant procedures. 
 
2-The investigator shall prepare a report containing the investigation record’s conclusion, the outcomes, and any opinions or recommendations, if applicable. 
 
3-The investigator shall sign at the bottom of each page of the investigation record and report. 
 
4-The investigator shall attach to the investigation record copies of the presented documents and papers. He shall sign them to verify they are a true copy of the originals.

Article 48
1-The investigator shall present the investigation record, its annexes, and the investigation report to the Public Department of Judicial Investigation and Prosecution. 
 
2-The Head of the Department shall refer the investigation record, its annexes, and the investigation report to the Chairman, for his decision on the matter. 

Article 49
The investigated judge may present a written request to the Chairman asking him to change his decision on the investigation location, with justification, as mentioned in paragraph (1) of Art. (40) of these regulations.

Article 50
The investigated judge may present a written request to the investigator asking him for no more than (5) days to answer all, or part, of the questions, during one of the times the investigator asks the investigated judge to provide an answer, for reasons left to the discretion of the investigator. This shall be reflected in the investigation record, as long as the total does not exceed (30) days. 

Article 51
The investigated judge may present a written request to the investigator asking him to postpone the investigation to a later date determined by the investigator, for reasons left to the discretion of the investigator, with the approval of the Head of the Department. This shall be reflected in the investigation record. 

Article 52
If the investigator fails to reach the investigated judge for any reason, the investigator shall reflect this in the investigation record and inform the Department, to inform the Chairman.

Article 53
If the investigator discovers that there is a previous, incomplete investigation conducted for this matter, and considers the investigation procedures to be sound, he may start the investigation where the previous one ended, after confronting the investigated judge with his previous statements and acquiring his confirmation. 

Article 54
More than one investigator may, when necessary, conduct the investigation. 

Article 55
If the complaint made against the judge turns out to be malicious, the Council shall order the referral of the complainant and his associates to the relevant court for punishment. The accused judge shall be informed of this matter. 

CHAPTER SIX The Disciplinary Suit
Article 56
The Head of the Department, or his deputy, shall file a disciplinary suit to the disciplinary department of the Council, upon the Chairman’s request. 

Article 57
The disciplinary suit sheet shall consist of the violations, their supporting evidence, and the request. 

CHAPTER SEVEN Concluding Provisions
Article 58
1- The Head of the Department and its members, while performing their duties, shall have the right to access, and request a copy of, the investigation records, documents, files, papers, and others, relevant to their work. 
 
2- The courts, the Ministry of Justice’s departments, and their employees, shall assist them and provide them with all the facilitations required to perform their duties. Any person who refuses to cooperate shall be subject to disciplinary action.

Article 59
The inspector shall prepare, when necessary, a report independent of the court he is assigned to conduct an inspection in, and of the functioning of the said court. He shall make note of discipline and record general observations, as well as any suggestions and recommendations he may have. He shall present the report to the Department of Judicial Inspection.  

Article 60
The committee shall recommend, spontaneously or based on the inspector’s suggestion, an investigation into the inspected judge, should any matter that require so become evident, based on the inspection report. The Head of the Department shall send the matter to the Council, through the Chairman, to make the appropriate decision. 

Article 61
If the court, or any of the Ministry of Justice’s departments or employees, refrain from assisting the inspector as stipulated by Art. (58) of these regulations, or a member of the judicial system refuses to respond to the inspector during an inspection or investigation, show up at the investigation location chosen by the Chairman, or reply to the complaint made against him within the specified period of time, a report shall be made and sent to the Department. The Head of the Department shall inform the Chairman of the matter.  

Article 62
1-The Department for Judicial Inspection Reports and Studies shall issue a report with the regularly adopted observations and provide the courts with a copy, after the Council’s approval. 
 
2-The Department for Judicial Inspection Reports and Studies shall issue research and studies that contribute to the enhancement of the judicial inspection’s performance and duties. 

Article 63
The inspection and investigation actions shall be confidential. Any disclosure relating to these actions shall be considered a violation of the job’s duties. 

Article 64
Notaries Public shall be subject to judicial inspection, according to the provisions of the judicial system. 

Article 65
1-Every member of the judicial system shall have a file containing the inspection and investigation reports, challenges, and relevant decisions. 
 
2-Every member of the judicial system shall have a confidential file containing a summary of the file mentioned in paragraph (1) of this Article. 
 
3-The Confidential Records Department shall prepare the confidential files and records mentioned in paragraphs (1 and 2) of this Article, and classify them. 

Article 66
Access to these confidential files and records mentioned in Art. (65) of these regulations shall not be permitted, except with a written permission from the Chairman or the Head of the Department.  

Article 67
1-The Department may benefit from modern technology to apply the provisions of these regulations. 

2-The Public Department of Judicial Connectivity shall prepare the mechanism regulating this matter, adopted by the Chairman. 

Article 68
These regulations shall replace the Judicial Inspection Regulations, issued by the Supreme Judicial Council Decision no. 364/5/30 dated 2/11/1430, thus entering into force on the day of its issuance.

