The law included: definition of terms, responsibility of oversight and control bodies in concealing data and identities, protection program for whistleblowers, witnesses, experts, and victims, requests from foreign authorities, conditions for admission to the protection program, procedures for studying protection requests, establishment of a security department, rights enjoyed by persons covered by protection, protection and confidentiality of data of protected persons, prohibited employment actions against protected persons, criminal proceedings against whistleblowers and witnesses, treatment of protected persons in case of assault, termination of protection, malicious reports, violations and penalties, and implementation.


Release Date
18/2/2024

Classification
Judicary

Statute Type
Regulation

Publish Date
1/3/2024

Statute Status
Active

Statute Release Tool
Royal Decree No. M/148

Hide Table Content
Law on the Protection of Informants, Witnesses, Experts, and Victims
Article 1
In this Law, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings assigned thereto:
Law: Law on the Protection of Informants, Witnesses, Experts, and Victims.
Regulations: Implementing Regulations of this Law.
Offenses: Major offenses requiring detention under law.
Protection: Procedures, measures, and guarantees taken, when necessary, to protect informants, witnesses, experts, and victims as well as their spouses and relatives, or any other persons whose close relationship with the informants, witnesses, experts, or victims might expose them to danger or harm, in accordance with the types of protection set forth in Article 14 of this Law.
Program: Protection Program for Informants, Witnesses, Experts, and Victims, established under Article 4 of this Law.
Security Department: The department entrusted under this Law with the implementation of security protection for persons covered by the Program.
Protected Person: A person to whom the Program administration decides to grant any type of protection.
Informant: A person who voluntarily provides information or evidence leading to the belief that an offense covered by this Law has been or might have been committed, or a person who reveals the perpetrators of such offense.
Witness: A person who provides or agrees to provide material information perceived by his senses in order to establish an offense covered by this Law.
Expert: A person who has technical, scientific, or practical expertise about a certain subject and whose assistance is sought by an investigation agency or by the court to reveal an offense covered by this Law, or to find related evidence or any of the perpetrators.
Victim: A person who has been harmed as a result of the commission of any of the offenses covered by this Law.
Court: The court which has jurisdiction to hear offenses covered by this Law.

Article 2
Agencies in charge of monitoring, detecting, and investigating the offenses covered by this Law shall:
1. conceal, in all their correspondence, reports, and documents, the identities and addresses of informants, witnesses, experts, or victims, when necessary or at the request thereof, in a manner that makes it impossible to identify them; and
2. cooperate with the court to ensure that witnesses give their testimonies without any influence or delay.

Article 3
1. The court shall take the measures it deems appropriate during litigation proceedings to protect informants, witnesses, experts, or victims if there are any reasons to believe that they might be exposed to danger. Such measures include concealing the identity of the witness or expert while providing testimony in court or when entering or leaving the court, and using means of technology, such as video and audio communication, for remote testimony. The court may, when necessary, use image- and voice-altering technologies to safeguard the protected persons covered by this Law, and may seek the assistance of the Program administration to implement the measures deemed appropriate thereby.
2. The court may, when necessary, hear the testimony of witnesses and confer with experts regarding any of the offenses covered by this Law outside the presence of the accused and his lawyer. The accused or his lawyer shall be informed of the content of the witness testimony and expert report without revealing the identities of the witnesses and experts. The Regulations shall specify the cases where the provisions of this paragraph must apply.
3. If the court deems it necessary to reveal the identity of a protected person in order for the accused to exercise his right of defense and the testimony of the witness or expert is the only evidence in the case, the court may allow the disclosure of his true identity; in such case, the necessary types of protection set forth in Article 14 of this Law must be provided to the protected person. This shall be in coordination with the Program administration.
4. The court may, when necessary, conceal the names of witnesses in the judgment decree. The
Regulations shall specify the cases where concealment is mandatory.

Article 4
A special program named the Protection Program for Informants, Witnesses, Experts, and Victims shall be established at the Public Prosecution in accordance with the provisions of this Law. The Regulations shall specify the Program's organizational structure, management, duties, and functions as well as the manner of funding the Program.

Article 5
The Program administration shall, in accordance with the provisions of this Law, have the power to admit informants, witnesses, experts, and victims to the Program and to determine the type and duration of protection provided thereto.

Article 6
The Public Prosecutor may, upon a recommendation from the Program administration and in accordance with the principle of reciprocity, approve requests from competent foreign authorities received by the Standing Committee for Legal Assistance Requests at the Ministry of Interior regarding the provision of protection to any informant, witness, expert, or victim in the territory of the Kingdom, in accordance with the provisions of this Law.

Article 7
No informant, witness, expert, or victim may be admitted to the Program unless the admission is based on the following:
1. A reasoned request for protection made by any of them.
2. A recommendation from the monitoring, detection, preliminary investigation, or investigation agency, or from the court, based on available information relating to the grounds for the provision of protection.

Article 8
The Public Prosecutor may, upon a reasonable belief that an informant, witness, expert, or victim might be exposed to imminent danger, provide protection to such person without his consent for a period not exceeding thirty days. The Public Prosecutor may, when necessary, extend said period, and may, pursuant to a written decision, delegate some of his powers to the heads of public prosecution offices.

Article 9
A request for protection shall be submitted to the Program administration for consideration. The administration shall consider such request according to the following criteria:
1. The extent to which the person requiring protection meets the requirements of the Program, based on his criminal history, if any, and a psychological assessment.
2. The nature of the threat facing the person requiring protection.
3. The type and gravity of the action relating to the offense subject of the request for protection.
4. The ability of the person requiring protection and his relatives to adapt to the protection program.
5. The availability of alternative protective measures for the person requiring protection without being admitted to the Program.
6. Any other criteria the Program administration deems appropriate to consider on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the Regulations.

Article 10
If the request for protection is approved, the Program administration shall determine the necessary procedures and mechanisms for protection as well as its duration, and shall notify the requesting entity and the person requiring protection of its approval within three days from the date of filing the request. If the request is rejected, the Program administration shall notify the requesting entity and the person requiring protection of its decision within three days from the date of filing the request, provided that the rejection decision is made in writing and is reasoned. The requesting entity or the person requiring protection may file an appeal directly with the Public Prosecutor against the rejection decision, the decision granting partial or inadequate protection, or the decision amending the protection, within ten days from the date of notification of the decision. The Public Prosecutor shall decide on the appeal within ten days from the filing date, and his decision shall be final and may not be appealed before any judicial body.

Article 11
If the request for protection is approved, the Program administration shall determine the obligations the protected person must fulfill, including the following:
1. Compliance procedures relating to the types of protection provided to the protected person.
2. The method of providing any requested information or evidence to the investigation authority or during trial in relation to the offense subject of the protection.
3. Cooperating, to the extent possible, with the security department on all its requests which are made in accordance with the provisions of this Law and its Regulations.
4. Refraining from any activities that might cause harm to himself or to the security department.

Article 12
A security department shall, in accordance with the provisions of this Law, be established at the Ministry of Interior and at the Presidency of State Security. Said departments, shall, each within their jurisdiction, be entrusted with providing protection or a security escort for protected persons. The Regulations shall specify the duties and functions to be assigned to said departments.

Article 13
The Program administration shall, in coordination with the relevant agencies, take the necessary measures to safeguard a protected person from physical injury and to ensure his health, safety, and social adaptation throughout the protection period. The rights and freedoms of the protected person during the protection period may not be restricted except as required pursuant to the provisions of this Law.

Article 14
A protected person shall, as decided by the Program administration and as prescribed by the protection procedures, fully or partially enjoy the following types of protection:
1. Security protection.
2. Concealing his personal information and any information that might reveal his identity throughout the protection period.
3. Transferring him to a different place of employment, temporarily or permanently, in coordination with his employer.
4. Assisting him in securing alternative employment if leaving his current employment becomes necessary.
5. Providing him with legal, psychological, and social counseling.
6. Providing him with means of communication to promptly report any threat to his safety or to the safety of any person close to him.
7. Changing his phone numbers.
8. Changing his place of residence, temporarily or permanently, and providing suitable alternatives, including his relocation to another province or city within the Kingdom, as the case may be.
9. Taking measures to ensure his safe mobility, including providing him with a security escort.
10. Coordinating with the relevant authorities to provide information about the offense subject of the protection using electronic means, with the alteration of his voice and concealment of his face.
11. Protecting his place of residence.
12. Providing him with financial assistance if the protection measures prevent him from earning a living.
13. Any other type of protection the Program administration deems appropriate, subject to the Regulations.

Article 15
The data of protected persons shall be confidential and may not be disclosed except in the cases specified in this Law.

Article 16
1. No person may directly or indirectly disclose any information that might cause harm to the protected person, including the following:
a) Any information that reveals, or from which might be inferred, the identity or personality of the protected person or his whereabouts.
b) Any information about the types of protection provided to the protected person or the procedures thereof.
c) The identity or role of any person who provides or assists in providing protection to the protected person.
2. The provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article shall not apply in the following cases:
a) If the protected person consents to revealing his identity or disclosing any information that might identify his personality.
b) If a competent judicial authority, pursuant to a judicial order, or a security agency requests information about the identity of the protected person based on the belief that the protected person can provide information or evidence in relation to any of the offenses committed, or information or evidence necessary to prevent the commission of any of such offenses, provided that such information is disclosed only to the requesting agency and within the narrowest limits.
c) If a security agency requests information about the identity of the protected person for purposes related to national security, provided that such information is disclosed only to the requesting agency and within the narrowest limits.
3. If any information is to be disclosed pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (2)(b and c) of this Article, the Program administration shall notify the protected person of such disclosure.

Article 17
1. None of the following job-related actions may be taken against a protected person if such actions are associated with the grounds for which the protection was granted:
a) Termination of employment.
b) Any decision that changes the legal or administrative status of the protected person which results in detracting from his rights or denying him such rights, defaming him, or damaging his status.
c) Any job-related arbitrary action, lawsuit, or disciplinary penalty.
2. The Program administration shall, upon being notified that any of the job related actions referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article has been taken, take the measures necessary to provide redress to the protected person, in coordination with the relevant agencies, in a manner that ensures rectification of harm.
3. If a protected person files a complaint with the legally competent authority regarding any of the job-related actions referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article, the entity taking such action shall bear the burden of proof that the action was taken on lawful grounds and that the action is not related to the grounds for which the protection was granted.

Article 18
A criminal action may not be brought against an informant, witness, or expert except in the following cases:
1. If it is established that the informant’s report is malicious.
2. If it is established that the witness’s testimony is perjurious.
3. If it is established that the expert’s testimony is knowingly false or involves gross negligence.
In all cases, a civil action may not be initiated except after the filing of a criminal action.

Article 19
Without prejudice to the plaintiff's civil claims, if a person protected under this Law has been subject to assault, the State shall bear the cost of treatment if the assault was related to the grounds for which the protection was granted. The Program administration may seek recourse against the persons who brought harm to the protected person for the cost borne by the State, in accordance with legal procedures.

Article 20
1. Protection may not be terminated if the grounds therefor still exist, except in any of the following cases:
a) If the protected person submits to the Program administration a written statement indicating his desire to discontinue the protection.
b) If the protected person, despite being alerted through any legally valid means of notification, fails to comply with the protection instructions communicated to him.
c) If the protected person deliberately provides incorrect information to the Program administration.
d) If the protected person refuses to cooperate with the Program administration, with the detection, preliminary investigation, or investigation agency, or with the court.
2. Protection shall terminate if the grounds for which it was provided cease to exist.
3. The Regulations shall specify the controls and procedures for the termination of protection provided for in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article.

Article 21
Termination of protection shall be pursuant to a written and reasoned decision by the Program administration. The Program administration shall, prior to such termination, notify the protected person of its decision at least 15 days prior to the effective date thereof. The entity requesting protection or the protected person may appeal the termination decision directly before the Public Prosecutor within ten days from the date of notification thereof. The Public Prosecutor shall decide on the appeal within ten days from the filing date, and his decision shall be final and may not be appealed before any judicial body.

Article 22
Non-conviction of a person against whom a report or testimony was presented shall not affect the protection granted to the protected person, provided that said report or testimony was presented in good faith and based on grounds which strongly indicate the commission of any of the offenses covered by this Law.

Article 23
Without prejudice to the provisions of any other law, the informant, witness, or expert shall reimburse all the costs incurred for his protection upon establishing that the report was malicious, the witness testimony was perjurious, or the expert testimony was knowingly false or involved gross negligence.

Article 24
Subject to the provisions of Article 16(2) of this Law, any person who deliberately discloses, whether directly or indirectly, any information that might endanger a protected person shall be subject to imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year and a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand riyals, or to either penalty.

Article 25
Any person who uses force or violence against a protected person for speaking or revealing the truth or who uses force or violence to prevent the protected person from speaking or revealing the truth shall be subject to imprisonment for a period not exceeding three years and a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand riyals, or to either penalty.

Article 26
1. Any person who threatens or blackmails a protected person or who offers or promises to offer the protected person a gift, benefit, or advantage in order for him to refrain from speaking or revealing the truth shall be subject to imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years and a fine not exceeding three hundred thousand riyals, or to either penalty.
2. Any person who hinders the provision of protection to a protected person or who refrains from providing such protection if he is required by this Law to do so shall be subject to imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year and a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand riyals, or to either penalty.
3. Any person who takes against a protected person any of the job-related actions provided for in Article 17(1) of this Law shall be subject to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months and a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand riyals, or to either penalty.

Article 27
Any private establishment operating in the Kingdom whose director or any of its employees are found to have committed any of the offenses provided for in Articles 25 and 26 of this Law for the benefit of said establishment shall be subject to a fine not exceeding five million riyals or debarment from contracting with any public agency for a period not exceeding five years, or to both penalties, without prejudice to any other penalty prescribed by this Law against a natural person who commits such offense. 

Article 28
Any person who incites, conspires with, or aids another person in committing any of the offenses provided for in Articles 24, 25, 26, and 27 of this Law shall be punished by not more than the maximum limit of the prescribed penalty if the offense is committed as a result of such incitement, conspiracy, or aid. If, however, the offense is not committed, the punishment shall not exceed half of the maximum limit of the prescribed penalty.

Article 29
Any person who attempts to commit any of the offenses provided for in Articles 24, 25, 26, and 27 of this Law shall be punished by not more than half of the maximum limit of the penalty prescribed for such offenses.

Article 30
Imposed penalties shall not be less than half of the maximum limit prescribed by this Law in either of the following cases:
1. If the offense is committed by an organized group.
2. If the offense is repeated: A person shall be deemed a repeat offender if he is convicted of committing any of the offenses provided for in this Law within five years from the date of issuance of a final enforceable judgment against him for committing any of such offenses.

Article 31
Without prejudice to the rights of a bona fide third party, any property, benefit, or privilege subject of an offense, in addition to any tools and instruments used in committing any of the offenses provided for in this Law as well as the proceeds generated therefrom shall be confiscated pursuant to a judgment.

Article 32
1. If a public servant, or a person of similar status, commits any of the offenses provided for in Articles 24, 25, and 26 of this Law in abuse of his position, such offense shall be deemed a crime of corruption.
2. If any of the actions provided for in Articles 24, 25, 26, and 27 of this Law constitutes an offense under other laws, the harsher penalty shall be imposed.

Article 33
The protection-related provisions stipulated in this Law shall not prejudice any other protection measures or types provided to protected persons in accordance with any other law.

Article 34
The application of this Law shall not prejudice the obligations of the Kingdom under international treaties and conventions.

Article 35
1. The Public Prosecution shall, with the exception of crimes of corruption, investigate the offenses provided for in this Law and prosecute the offenders before the competent court.
2. The Criminal Investigation and Prosecution Unit at the Oversight and Anti Corruption Authority shall investigate the crimes of corruption provided for in Article 32 (1) of this Law and prosecute such crimes before the competent court.

Article 36
The Public Prosecution shall, in coordination with the Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Interior, Presidency of State Security, Oversight and Anti Corruption Authority, and other relevant authorities, each within their respective jurisdictions, prepare the Regulations within 120 days from the date of issuance of this Law. Said Regulations shall be issued pursuant to a resolution by the Council of Ministers.

Article 37
This Law shall enter into force 120 days following the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.

