..


Release Date
20/12/1972

Classification
Notarization and real estate resource

Statute Type
Regulation

Publish Date
5/1/1973

Statute Status
Active

Hide Table Content
Law of Disposition of Municipal Real Estate
Article 1
Municipal public property shall not be subject to disposition. However, such property may, subject to applicable laws and regulations, be utilized at no cost or for a fee in a manner not conflicting with their designated purposes. 

Article 2
Municipalities’ disposition of their private property may, pursuant to this Law and its Regulations, be as follows: 

1. Selling or bartering. 

2. Leasing. 

3. Utilization at no cost or for a fee. 

Article 3
For the implementation of the previous provisions, public property shall mean property allocated for public use, de facto or legally; otherwise, they shall be considered private property. Private property shall include any public property which has, de facto or legally, ceased to be allocated for public use. 

Article 4
Disposition shall be in accordance with regulations issued by the President of the Council of Ministers upon a recommendation by the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Finance. 

Article 5
Disposition shall be pursuant to a decision by the municipal council or a decision by the Minister of Interior if a municipality does not have a municipal council. 

Article 6
The beneficiary of the disposition may not be a minister or a deputy minister, an employee of an entity with which the municipality is affiliated whose rank is Grade 8 or higher, an employee of any rank at the municipality carrying out the disposition, or a member of the municipal council issuing the disposition decision. The beneficiary may not be a parent, child, grandchild, spouse, or sibling of any of the aforementioned persons, nor may he be an agent or an employee thereof. The right of the beneficiary may not be transferred to any of the aforementioned persons for five years following the disposition, unless the transfer is made through inheritance or a will.

