The Regulation included the following:
Authentication of the marriage, contract of a non-Muslim,
Conditions for marriage of a person under eighteen years of age, Conclusion of the marriage contract by means of technology,
Absence of the guardian’s,
Provisions of a woman is denied marriage by her guardian,
The dowery, Housing support,
Cases of dissolution of a marriage contract, and Provisions governing custody.

 


Release Date
16/2/2025

Classification
Judicary

Statute Type
Regulation

Publish Date
21/2/2025

Statute Status
Active

Statute Release Tool
High Order No. 59641 February 16, 2025

Hide Table Content
Regulations of the Family Law
Article 1
The presence of a discerning person shall be deemed one of the forms for negating khalwa between a married couple as stipulated in Article 7 of the Law.

Article 2
The marriage contract of a non-Muslim man to a non-Muslim woman shall be registered in accordance with the provisions of the Notarization Law, whether they are of the same nationality or different nationalities.

Article 3
1. Without prejudice to relevant statutory provisions, the authorization of the marriage of a person under the age of 18, as stipulated in Article 9 of the Law, shall be conditional upon the following:
a) The request for marriage is submitted by the male or female seeking to get married , their legal guardians, or the mother of either of them.
b) The person seeking to get married explicitly consents to the marriage before the court. The court shall then hear the mother’s opinion on the matter; if hearing such opinion is infeasible, the court shall establish such infeasibility and authorize the marriage.
c) The person seeking to get married has reached the age of puberty and is physically and mentally fit for marriage, and the marriage does not pose harm to such person; this shall be established pursuant to the following:
- A medical report.
- A psychological report and a social report; the judge may deem either report sufficient if it adequately indicates that the persons seeking to get married are psychologically and socially suitable for each other.
2. The provision of paragraph (1) of this Article shall apply to the marriage of a Saudi male to a non-Saudi female and the marriage of a Saudi female to a non-Saudi male if the marriage contract is
concluded in the Kingdom.

Article 4
If the parties to the marriage contract do not speak the Arabic language, the offer and acceptance shall be made explicitly in their language if the language allows therefor. If the parties do not speak the same language, the offer and acceptance shall be made in the languages the parties speak if the languages allow therefor.

Article 5
If the marriage contract is concluded by any means of technology, the offer and acceptance shall constructively be deemed to have been made at the same time and place. The Ministry of Justice shall set the relevant procedures and controls.

Article 6
The court shall verify the marriage guardian’s inability to be present at the conclusion of the marriage contract or the inability to notify him, through the competent authority, in accordance with applicable notification procedures.

Article 7
The court may, in accordance with statutory provisions, assign an authorized person to act as the guardian in the conclusion of a marriage contract for a woman whose father is unknown, provided that the contract explicitly provides for such assignment.

Article 8
Without prejudice to the provision of Article 17(1) of the Law, if a woman requests marriage on grounds that she has no guardian due to the guardian’s absence, disappearance, or death, the court shall address the matter by issuing a declaratory deed establishing such absence, disappearance, or death based on evidence, if any; otherwise, the court shall ascertain the guardian’s absence, disappearance, or death using any means of evidence or by communicating in writing with the competent authority in accordance with statutory provisions.

Article 9
If a woman designates a guardian in accordance with Article 17(2) of the Law, the marriage contract must provide for such designation.

Article 10
If the court assigns an authorized person to act as the guardian of a woman in the conclusion of the marriage contract in accordance with Article 20 of the Law, the contract shall explicitly provide for such assignment.

Article 11
In the application of Article 20 of the Law, a person with interest shall include the relatives of the woman denied marriage by her guardian as well as the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development.

Article 12
Establishing that a woman is denied marriage by her guardian shall not require the existence of a fiancé or his appearance before the court if he exists.

Article 13
If the court establishes that a woman is denied marriage by her guardian, in accordance with Article 20 of the Law, and the woman is not directly the subject of the marriage denial, the court’s decision shall apply to the other women under the guardianship of the concerned guardian if a request to establish marriage denial is filed by any of them; a declaratory deed shall be issued to this effect.

Article 14
A judgement establishing that a woman is denied marriage by her guardian shall not preclude him from acting as her guardian in the conclusion of the marriage contract if she consents thereto.

Article 15
The court shall take into consideration the opinion of the woman who is denied marriage when transferring the marriage guardianship to any other guardian.

Article 16
The effects of the marriage contract provided for in Article 34 of the Law shall apply even if the contract is concluded without the guardian’s acceptance or without witnesses, or if the contract is for the marriage of a man while in the state of ihram for Hajj or Umrah. Such marriage contract may be registered upon its validation in accordance with statutory provisions.

Article 17
The dowry stated in the marriage contract shall be deemed the agreed
agreed-upon dowry unless the spouses acknowledge otherwise.

Article 18
In cases where a woman is entitled to a dowry similar to that of a woman of equal status, such dowry shall be determined based on the dowry of women of equal status from among her paternal and maternal relatives.

Article 19
A custodian shall not be entitled to housing support for the person subject of custody if either of them resides in a home owned thereby or allocated thereto, or if the custodian resides in a home as a dependent. In all cases, the interest of the person subject of custody shall be taken into consideration.

Article 20
A custodian may not claim the cost of rent if the person obligated to provide financial support provides suitable housing for the person subject of custody.

Article 21
Subject to Articles 49 and 50 of the Law, if a court issues a judgment granting temporary financial support to a person entitled thereto while a claim relating to permanent financial support is pending, the following shall be observed:
1. If the judgment is rendered in favor of the wife, the court shall, upon issuing judgement on permanent financial support, take into consideration the judgement rendered on temporary financial support by increasing or decreasing the financial support if a claim is made by the husband or the wife, as the case may be.
2. If the judgment is rendered in favor of the children or parents, the permanent financial support shall be effective from the date of the judgement, irrespective of the temporary financial support judgment rendered by the court.

Article 22
Subject to Article 58 of the Law, if a married daughter is not entitled to financial support from her husband in accordance with Article 51 of the Law, she shall continue to be supported by her father or by any other person obligated to provide for her.

Article 23
If a judgement for financial support is rendered in favor of a person subject of custody, it shall provide for the delivery of such support to the custodian without naming him. The subsequent custodian shall replace the previous custodian in receiving the financial support.

Article 24
For purposes of the application of Article 58(2) of the Law, a son shall not be deemed capable of earning a living until he reaches the age of 18, provided that this does not affect the completion of his education.

Article 25
The exceptional cases referred to in Article 70 of the Law shall include the following:
1. Uncertainty of the paternity of newborns in hospitals.
2. Failure to identify persons in accidents or disasters.

Article 26
A wife's right to request dissolution of the marriage contract due to a defect in the husband that prevents intercourse shall not be forfeited even if she never claims such right.

Article 27
A hearsay testimony relating to the spouses' lives shall be admitted as evidence to establish harm for the purpose of dissolving a marriage contract. Such testimony shall not, however, be admitted as evidence to negate harm.

Article 28
The court may, after completing the relevant statutory procedures, di
solve a marriage contract upon the wife’s request if she believes that her marital rights will not be satisfied and the husband refuses to divorce her or grant her khul’, provided that she returns the dowry

Article 29
Subject to Articles 110 and 111 of the Law, the mediators shall:
1. request the presence of one or both spouses; and
2. include in their report the statements of both spouses and any other person whose testimony is heard.

Article 30
Pursuant to Articles 42, 110, and 111 of the Law, if the mediators fail to resolve a marital discord, they shall recommend the following:
1. Separation without compensation if the causes of the marital discord are all attributable to the husband.
2. Separation in return for the full dowry if the causes of the marital discord are all attributable to the wife .
3. Separation with compensation in proportion to the extent to which each s pouse is responsible for the marital discord.
4. Separation in return for half the dowry if it is not possible to determine the spouse responsible for the marital discord.
In all cases, the duration of the marital life shall be taken into consideration.

Article 31
The court shall, after reviewing the report submitted by the mediators, issue a decision to:
1. uphold the opinion of the mediators; or
2. dissolve the marriage contract and decide on compensation as it deems appropriate.
In all cases, the marriage contract shall not be dissolved in return for compensation received by the wife without her consent.

Article 32
Subject to Articles 124 and 138 of the Law, the custodian shall be responsible for taking care of the interests of the person subject of custody, and shall assume the following in particular:
1. Attend to the affairs of the person subject of custody before public and private entities, including accessing the person’s accounts on applications and digital platforms.
2. Receive aid and allowances paid to the person subject of custody by public and private entities.
3. Maintain copies of official documents pertaining to the person subject of custody, or the originals thereof if necessary.

Article 33
Subject to Article 125 of the Law, if the person subject of custody is under the age of two, custody shall be awarded to the mother, even if she marries a man who is not a relative of the person subject of custody.

Article 34
For purposes of the application of Article 126 of the Law, a non-relative shall refer to any person other than the relatives provided for in Article 224 of the Law.

Article 35
The father or the mother shall be compelled to assume custody in accordance with the provisions of Article 131 of the Law, based on a lawsuit filed by either of them or by a relevant agency.

Article 36
The custodian shall not be entitled to consideration for assuming custody unless appointed by the court in accordance with Article 132 of the Law.

Article 37
Without prejudice to the provisions of the Law, the interest of the person subject of custody and his place of residence as well as the circumstances of the parties to the dispute shall be taken into consideration when deciding who accompanies the person subject of custody and who picks up and returns him for the purpose of visitation.

Article 38
1. The Ministry of Justice shall, in coordination with the relevant agencies , prepare the forms and procedures necessary for filing requests for financial support, custody, and visitation; such forms and procedures shall be approved by the court.
2. If the separation of spouses occurs in accordance with Article 76 of the Law, the husband or the wife, as the case may be, may electronically file a request for custody, visitation, or financial support. A document concerning such request shall be issued in accordance with the forms and procedures provided for in paragraph (1) of this Article; such document shall, upon its approval by the court, be deemed an enforcement document. This paragraph shall apply to any request for custody, visitation, or financial support filed prior to separation.
3. Any person with interest may object to the document referred to in paragraph (2) of this Article by filing a lawsuit with the court. The court may order a stay of execution if it fears that execution may cause harm.

Article 39
When deciding on a similar beneficiary, as stipulated in Article 185 of the Law, the testator's intended purpose must be realized, if possible. In all cases, a bequest may only be reallocated in accordance with statutory provisions.

Article 40
Without prejudice to relevant statutory provisions, the competent authorities supervising the registration of estates shall provide any heir, upon request, with the following:
1. A statement of the testator’s rights and fixed and movable assets.
2. A copy of the statements relating to the testator’s estate issued after the date of the testator’s death.

Article 41
These Regulations shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force as of the date of their publication.

