The regulations included: Definitions, scope of application, court jurisdiction, powers of the trustee and foreign trustee, general principles, limited judicial jurisdiction, protection of creditors and interested parties, recognition of foreign bankruptcy proceedings, judicial assistance, notification of foreign creditors, cooperation between the court and foreign court, synchronization between bankruptcy proceedings, multiple foreign bankruptcy proceedings, final provisions, enforcement of the regulations from the date of publication.


Release Date
8/12/2022

Statute Type
Other (قواعد)

Publish Date
16/12/2022

Statute Status
Active

Statute Release Tool
Minister of Commerce Decision No (149)

Hide Table Content
Rules of Cross-border bankruptcy
Definitions
Article 1
1- Terms and phrases used in the Rules shall have the meanings assigned thereto under Article (1) of the Bankruptcy Law promulgated by Royal Decree No. (M/50) dated 28/5/1439 H, and Article (1) of the Implementing Regulations of the Bankruptcy Law issued by the Council of Ministers’ resolution No. (622) dated 24/12/1439 H.

2- The following terms and phrases, used herein, shall have the meanings assigned thereto, unless the context requires otherwise:

Rules: Rules of Cross-Border Bankruptcy Proceedings.

Foreign Proceeding: a collective judicial or administrative proceeding in a foreign state, including an interim proceeding, pursuant to a law relating to bankruptcy in which proceeding the assets and affairs of the debtor are subject to control or supervision by a foreign court, for the purpose of reorganization or liquidation.

Foreign main proceeding: a foreign proceeding taking place in the state where the debtor has the center of its main interests.

Foreign non-main proceeding: a foreign proceeding taking place in a state – other than the state where the debtor has the center of its main interests- where the debtor carries out a non-transitory economic activity with human means and goods or services.

Foreign Court: a judicial or other authority in a foreign state competent to commence or supervise a foreign proceeding.

Foreign representative: means a person or body, including one appointed on an interim basis, authorized in a foreign proceeding to administer the reorganization or the liquidation of the debtor’s assets or affairs or to act as a representative of the foreign proceeding.

Scope of Application
Article 2
The Rules shall apply where: a. A foreign court or a foreign representative seeks assistance from the Court in connection with a foreign proceeding; b. The Court, bankruptcy commission or officeholder seeks assistance from a foreign court  or a foreign representative in connection with a proceeding under the Law; c. A foreign proceeding and a proceeding under the Law in respect of the same debtor are taking place concurrently; or d. Creditors or other interested persons in a foreign state have an interest in requesting the commencement of, or participating in, a proceeding under the Law.

General Principles
Article 3
1. The Rules shall not prejudice the international agreements to which the Kingdom is a party.

2. The court may refuse to take any action if the action would be manifestly contrary to the public policy of the Kingdom.

3. The Rules shall not limit the power of a court or an officeholder to provide additional assistance to a foreign representative under other laws of the Kingdom.

4. In applying the Rules, regard is to be had to its international origin and to the need to promote uniformity in its application and the observance of good faith.

Competence of the Court
Article 4
The court shall be competent to consider requests relating to recognition of foreign proceedings and relief.

Powers of the Officeholder and Foreign Representative
Article 5
1. Without prejudice to the laws of the foreign state, the officeholder appointed in a bankruptcy proceeding under the Law is entitled to exercise his relevant powers and tasks in the foreign state in accordance with the Law, and he may communicate directly with the foreign court and the foreign representative and cooperate therewith under the supervision of the Court.

2. The foreign representative is entitled to apply directly to the Court for relief and recognition of the foreign proceeding in which he has been appointed, and he may apply to commence a  proceeding under the Law.

Limited Jurisdiction
Article 6
Any application to the court made pursuant to the Rules by a foreign representative shall not subject the foreign representative or the foreign assets and affairs of the debtor to the jurisdiction of the court in the Kingdom for any purpose other than the application.

Protection of Creditors and Other Interested Persons
Article 7
1. Without prejudice to the ranking of claims in a proceeding under the Law as provided for in Chapter (12) of the Law and Chapter (11) of the Implementing Regulations, foreign creditors shall have the same rights regarding the commencement of, and participation in, a proceeding under the Law as creditors in the Kingdom.

2. The court must be satisfied that the interests of the debtor, creditors and other interested persons are adequately protected.

3. The court may, at its own motion or at the request of the foreign representative or a person affected by relief, modify or terminate such relief.

4. Upon recognition of a foreign proceeding, the foreign representative has standing to initiate actions to avoid or otherwise render ineffective acts detrimental to creditors.

5. When the foreign proceeding is a foreign non-main proceeding, the court must be satisfied that the action relates to assets that, under the laws of the Kingdom, should be administered in the foreign non-main proceeding.

6. Without prejudice to creditors claims secured by in-kind securities, a creditor who has received part payment in respect of its claim in a proceeding pursuant to a law relating to bankruptcy in a foreign state may not receive a payment for the same claim in a proceeding under the Law regarding the same debtor, so long as the payment to the other creditors of the same class is proportionately less than the payment the creditor has already received.

Recognition of a Foreign Bankruptcy Proceeding and Relief
Article 8
1. A foreign representative may apply to the court for recognition of the foreign proceeding in which the foreign representative has been appointed. The application for recognition shall be accompanied by: a. A copy of the decision commencing the foreign proceeding and appointing the foreign representative; b. A certificate from the foreign court affirming the existence of the foreign proceeding and of the appointment of the foreign representative; c. A statement identifying the foreign proceedings in respect of the debtor that are known to the foreign representative.

2. When considering the application for recognition, if the decision or certificate referred to in paragraph (1/a) and paragraph (1/b) of this Article indicates that the foreign proceeding and the foreign representative fall within the meaning of “foreign proceeding” and “foreign representative” as set out in paragraph (2) of Article (1) of the Rules, the court is entitled to so presume.

3. The court is entitled to accept the details and documents submitted in support of the application whether or not they have been legalized.

4. In the absence of evidence referred to in paragraph (1/a) and paragraph (1/b) of this Article, any other evidence proving the existence of the foreign proceeding and of the appointment of the foreign representative may be presented, and the court has the right to accept or reject said evidence.

5. The court may require an Arabic translation of documents provided in support of the application for recognition.

6. In the absence of proof to the contrary, the debtor’s registered office, or habitual residence in the case of an individual, is presumed to be the center of the debtor’s main interests.

Article 9
From the time of filing the application for recognition of the foreign proceeding, the foreign representative shall inform the court promptly of:

a. Any substantial change in the status of the recognized foreign proceeding or the status of the foreign representative’s appointment; and

b. Any other foreign proceeding regarding the same debtor that becomes known to the foreign representative.

Article 10
1. From the time of filing an application for recognition until the application is decided upon, the foreign representative may apply to the court for relief, where relief is urgently needed to protect the assets of the debtor or the interests of the creditors, the court may decide any of the following: a. Ensuring the administration or realization of all or part of the debtor’s assets located in Kingdom to the foreign representative or another person, in order to protect and preserve the value of assets that, by their nature or because of other circumstances, are perishable or susceptible to devaluation. b. Any relief mentioned in paragraph (1) of Article (14) of the Rules.

2. Unless the court extended relief according to paragraph (e) of Article (15) of the Rules, the relief granted shall terminate when the application for recognition is decided upon.

3. Notifications provided for in this Article shall be made in accordance with the provisions of notification and announcement stipulated in Article (6) of the Implementing Regulations.

Article 11
The application for relief shall be made in writing and contain the following information:

a. Names and addresses of the persons concerned, if any.

b. State the nature of the relief being sought.

c. Reasons for applying.

Article 12
1. Subject to Article (3) of the Rules, a foreign proceeding shall be recognized if: a. The foreign proceeding and the foreign representative meet the definitions of “foreign proceeding” and “foreign representative” referred to in paragraph (2) of Article (1) of the Rules; and b. The recognition application meets the requirements of paragraph (1) of Article (8) of the Rules.

2. The foreign proceeding shall be recognized as a foreign main proceeding or as a foreign non-main proceeding  according to paragraph (2) of Article (1) of the Rules.

3. The court shall decide upon the application for recognition of the foreign proceeding submitted pursuant Article (8) at the earliest possible time.

4. The court is entitled to modify or terminate recognition if it is shown that the grounds for granting it were fully or partially lacking or have ceased to exist.

Article 13
Subject to the provisions of relevant laws, the foreign representative may, upon recognition of a foreign proceeding, intervene in any proceedings related to the debtor.

Article 14
1. The recognition of the foreign main proceeding shall entail the following: a. Commencement or continuation of actions or proceedings concerning the debtor’s assets, rights, obligations, or liabilities is stayed. b. Execution against the debtor’s assets is stayed; and c. The right to transfer, encumber or otherwise dispose of any assets of the debtor is stayed.

2. The scope and the termination of the stay referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article shall be subject to the provisions of the stay stipulated in the Law - as per the proceeding.

3. The provision of paragraph (1) of this Article does not affect the right to request the commencement of a bankruptcy proceeding or judicial depository under the Law or to file claims in such a proceeding, nor does it affect the right to commence individual actions or proceedings to the extent necessary to preserve a claim against the debtor.

Article 15
Upon recognition of a foreign proceeding, where necessary to protect the assets of the debtor or the interests of the creditors, the court may, at the request of the foreign representative, order any of the following, if needed:

a. Staying any of the rights stipulated in paragraph (1) of Article (14) of the Rules if they have not been stayed pursuant to the foregoing paragraph;

b. Gathering evidence and presumptions or delivering information concerning the debtor's assets, rights, or obligations;

c. Entrusting the administration or disposition of all or part of the debtor’s assets located in the Kingdom to the foreign representative or another person designated by the court;

d. Entrusting the distribution of all or part of the sale proceeds of the debtor’s assets located in the Kingdom to the foreign representative or another person designated by the court, provided that the court is satisfied that the interests of creditors in the Kingdom are adequately protected; e. Extending relief granted;

f. Any additional procedures or measures that may be taken under the Law.

Article 16
1. In granting relief to a foreign representative of a foreign non-main proceeding, the court must be satisfied that the relief relates to assets that, under the Law, should be administered in the foreign non-main proceeding or concerns information required in that proceeding.

2. The court may subject relief to conditions and limitations it considers appropriate.

Article 17
After recognition of a foreign main proceeding, a proceeding under the Law may be commenced only if the debtor has assets in the Kingdom, the effects of that proceeding shall be restricted to the assets of the debtor that are located in the Kingdom and to other assets of the debtor that, under the Law, should be administered in that proceeding.

Notification to Foreign Creditors that have no Saudi Address
Article 18
1. Notifications with regard to bankruptcy proceedings or recognition of foreign proceedings shall be given to the foreign creditors that do not have addresses in the Kingdom in accordance with the provisions of notification and announcement stipulated in Article (6) of the Implementing Regulation.

2. Such notification shall be made to the foreign creditors individually, unless the court considers that some other form of notification would be more appropriate.

3. When a notification of commencement of a proceeding is to be given to foreign creditors, the notification shall:

a. Indicate a reasonable time period for filing claims and specify the place for their filing in accordance with the provisions of the Law;

b. Indicate whether secured creditors need to file their secured claims; and

c. Contain any other information or documents required to be included in such a notification to creditors pursuant to the orders of the court.

Cooperation with Foreign Courts
Article 19
1. The court shall cooperate and coordinate to the maximum extent possible with foreign courts directly or through the officeholder or foreign representative, in all matters relating to proceedings under the Law or foreign proceedings, including:

a. Appointment of a person or body to act at the directions of the court;

b. Communication of information by any means considered appropriate by the court;

c. Coordination and cooperation regarding the administration and supervision of the debtor's assets and affairs;

d. Approval or implementation by courts of agreements concerning the coordination of proceedings;

e. Coordination and cooperation of concurrent proceedings regarding the same debtor;

f. Any other forms of coordination and cooperation determined by the Ministry of Justice.

2. The court may use electronic means to communicate directly with the foreign court, officeholder, and foreign representative.

Concurrent Proceedings
Article 20
1. Where a foreign proceeding and a proceeding under the Law are taking place concurrently regarding the same debtor, and an application for recognition of the foreign proceeding is filed with the court, any relief granted must be consistent with the proceeding under the Law.

2. When the proceeding in the Kingdom commences after recognition, or after the filing of the application for recognition, of the foreign proceeding, the court shall: a. Modify or terminate relief if inconsistent with the proceeding in the Kingdom; and b. If the foreign proceeding is a foreign main proceeding, modify or terminate the stay referred to in paragraph (1) of Article (14) of the Rules if inconsistent with the proceeding in the Kingdom.

3. Where a proceeding under the Law and a foreign proceeding are taking place concurrently regarding the same debtor, the court must, prior to granting or extending relief in a foreign non-main proceeding, be satisfied that the relief relates to assets that, under the Law, should be administered in the foreign non-main proceeding or concerns information required in that proceeding.

Coordination of More Than One Foreign Proceeding
Article 21
In respect of more than one foreign proceeding regarding the same debtor, the court shall, in order to grant relief, seek cooperation and coordination under Article (19) of the Rules, and the following shall apply:

a. Any relief granted in a foreign non-main proceeding after recognition of a foreign main proceeding must be consistent with the foreign main proceeding;

b. If a foreign main proceeding is recognized after recognition of a foreign non-main proceeding, the court shall modify or terminate relief if inconsistent with the recognized foreign main proceeding;

c. If, after recognition of a foreign non-main proceeding, another foreign non-main proceeding is recognized, the court shall modify or terminate relief for the purpose of facilitating coordination of the proceedings.

Article 22
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, recognition of a foreign main proceeding is, for the purpose of commencing a proceeding under the Law, proof that the debtor is bankrupt or distressed.

Final Provisions
Article 23
The Rules shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force from the date of their publication.

