Rules for limiting conflicts of interest for those who previously worked in the judiciary - and those in similar positions - when practicing law


Release Date
13/11/2022

Classification
Law practice

Statute Type
Other (قواعد)

Publish Date
18/11/2022

Statute Status
not Active

Statute Release Tool
Minister of Justice Decision No (1417)

Last Updated On
info
15/1/2025

Update Decree
Minister of Justice Decision No (676)

Hide Table Content
Rules for reducing conflicts of interest for those who have previously worked in the judiciary, and those of similar status, when practicing the law profession
Article 1:
The following terms and expressions shall have the meanings assigned to them, unless the context requires otherwise:

Law: Code of Law Practice. 

Rules: Rules to reduce conflicts of interest for those who have previously worked in the judiciary, and those of similar status, when practicing the law profession. 

Profession: The law profession.

Article 2:
The provisions of the rules shall apply to those who have previously worked in the judiciary, and those of similar status, namely: 

1- Judges in the general judiciary, or the Board of Grievances, members of the Public Prosecution, and members of the committees referred to in Article (1) of the Law. 

2- Technical and administrative staff working in the courts of general jurisdiction or the Board of Grievances, branches of the Public Prosecution, and secretariats of the committees referred to in Article (1) of the Law. 

Article 3:
1- Subject to the provisions of Article (16) of the Law, anyone who has previously worked in the judiciary, and those of similar status, for a period of three years from the date of the end of his relationship with him, may plead in person, or through another person in any case, or provide advice in any incident in the following cases: 

a- If the case or incident is pending before a court, or a committee in which he has worked for the last two years of his work. 

b- If the case or incident is pending before a court, or a committee competent to consider the objection to its judgments, and its decisions are a court or committee in which he has worked for the last two years of his work. 

c- If the case or incident has been taken by the branch of the Public Prosecution in which in which he has worked for the last two years of his work; any of the procedures that the Public Prosecution is competent to conduct. 

2- Excluded from the provisions stipulated in paragraph (1) of this article are the cases and proceedings to which the person who has previously worked in the judiciary, and those of similar status, is a party, a custodian, a guardian, an administrator of endowment, an agent of a husband, a relative, or a son-in-law up to the fourth degree. 

Article 4:
The prohibition contained in Article (3) of the rules covers all work of the profession, including: pleading, representing others, providing sharia and legal advice, expressing an opinion, preparing case documents, and participating in any of these works with or without a contract. 

Article 5:
A person, who has previously worked in the judiciary, and those of similar status, when declaring himself, or participating in the media and advertising, may not refer to his work in the judiciary. 

Article 6:
Subject to the obligations stipulated in the relevant laws and regulations, those who have previously worked in the judiciary, and those of similar status, must verify that there is no violation of the rules before agreeing to carry out any of the work of the profession. 

Article 7:
1- Violations of the rules shall be subject to the provisions of recording, and the filing and consideration of disciplinary case, contained in the Law. 

2- Without prejudice to civil and criminal liability, the provisions of Article (29) of the Law shall apply to those who violate the provisions of the Rules.

Article 8:
Without prejudice to Article (37) of the Law, the competent department in the Ministry of Justice shall notify Oversight and Anti-Corruption Authority of any decision issued by the Disciplinary Committee regarding the violation of the rules, and of any violation of the rules that fall within the scope of the competence of the Control and Anti-Corruption Commission. 

