.


Release Date
18/2/2013

Classification
Alternative dispute resolution

Statute Type
Other (تنظيم)

Publish Date
12/4/2013

Statute Status
Active

Statute Release Tool
Council of Ministers Resolution No. 103

Legislation link on the bureau of experts at the council of ministers
click here

Hide Table Content
Statute of the Reconciliation Centre
Article 1
The following expressions and phrases, wherever mentioned in this Statute, shall have the meanings indicated in front of each of them: 

1- Center: Reconciliation Center. 

2- Ministry: The Ministry of Justice. 

3- Minister: The Minister of Justice. 

4- Secretary General: The Secretary General of the Centre. 

5- Reconciliation: A consensual means of settling disputes, handled by reconciliation offices, in whole or in part.

6- Reconciliation offices: Offices of the Center. 

7- Reconciler: Whoever undertakes reconciliation works in accordance with the provisions of this Statute.

Article 2
A center called the "Reconciliation Center" shall be established in the Ministry, and its work shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Statute. 

Article 3
Without prejudice to the provisions of sharia and the relevant Laws, the mission of the Center shall be to seek the settlement of disputes through reconciliation offices.

Article 4
Reconciliation offices shall be established at the headquarters of the courts or notaries of justice. Each office shall consist of one or more reconcilers selected from the employees of the Ministry or from the employees of the Country, after obtaining the approval of their employers, or from others who meet the conditions specified by the Minister by a decision from him.

Article 5
The Center shall have a Secretary General, who shall be designated by a decision of the Minister.

Article 6
The Secretary General shall supervise the Centre and the reconciliation offices. In particular, he shall:

1- Monitor the performance of workers in the center and reconciliation offices, and to raise their productive efficiency. 

2- Supervising the preparation of the annual report in preparation for submission to the Minister. 

3- Any task that the Minister deems to be assigned to him. 

Article 7
It is not permissible for anyone working in reconciliation offices, even after the end of his work, to disclose a secret entrusted to him, or known by him through his work in those offices, unless there is a legal or statutory requirement to do so. 

Article 8
The provisions of this Statute shall be without prejudice to the right of the parties to settle their disputes by conciliation outside the framework of the reconciliation offices.

Article 9
The Minister shall issue the rules and procedures of work in the reconciliation offices and the decisions necessary for the implementation of this Statute.

Article 10
This Statute shall come into force after the lapse of (90) days from the date of its publication in the Official Gazette, and shall repeal all provisions that contradict thereto.

