The regulation included: General provisions - Terms and conditions - Content of the request - Referral to specialized committees - Preparation of medical forms and reports - Publication and enforcement.


Release Date
5/6/2023

Statute Type
Regulation

Publish Date
23/6/2023

Statute Status
Active

Statute Release Tool
Decision of The Minister of Justice NO (3411)

Hide Table Content
The regulation MEDICAL REPORTS STIPULATED IN THE Family LAW
Article 1
The following terms - wherever mentioned in this regulation - shall have the meanings indicated in front of each of them - unless the context requires otherwise -: 

Law: Family Law.

Regulation: The regulation of medical reports stipulated in the Family Law. 

Request: The court request for a medical report from the health facility.

Report: The medical report issued by the health facility based on the request of the court, or submitted by one of the parties. 

Article 2
1- The request must include the basic data of the parties concerned, its subject matter, and the identification of what is required by stating it in clear and connotative words.

2- The report must be written in Arabic, and include the basic data of the person against whom it was issued, after verifying his identity, the subject of the request, and the detailed statement in explicit, firm and indicative terms.

Article 3
It is necessary - as appropriate, and before issuing the report - to review the medical records, and the previous reports at any health facility, and none of them shall not refrain from providing the issuer of the report with what is necessary for that. 

Article 4
The report on emergency disqualification or loss of capacity, and the report on the maximum duration of the pregnancy, must be issued by a specialized medical committee consisting of three consultant doctors, and it must be at the request of the court. 

Article 5
With the exception of the cases mentioned in Article (4) of this regulation, the report must be issued by two specialized doctors. 

Article 6
The court - when necessary - or at the request of one of the parties, and at any stage of the case, may refer the report to a special committee to review the medical reports for its review and for its approval, or to indicate its shortcomings or error, in addition to preparing a new medical report from another committee in accordance with the procedures stipulated in the regulation.

Article 7
In the absence of a provision in the Law and the Regulation, the provisions contained in the Law of Evidence shall apply to medical reports. 

Article 8
Subject to the relevant Laws, the provisions of this regulation shall apply to the medical reports received from outside the Kingdom. 

Article 9
Reports issued through the approved electronic means shall have the provisions prescribed in the regulation.

Article 10
The request and the report are confidential documents and are subject to the relevant Laws. 

Article 11
The Minister of Health shall form one or more committees stipulated in articles (4) and (6) of the regulation, and shall name the doctors stipulated in article (5) of the regulation. The formation decision shall determine the mechanism of work of the committees. 

Article 12
1- Subject to the provisions of Article (2) of this Regulation, the forms of medical requests and reports - contained in the Law and the Regulation - shall be prepared by a committee consisting of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health, and shall be issued by the Minister of Justice. 

2- The committee - referred to in paragraph (1) of this article - shall specify the basic data mentioned in article (2) of this regulation, and the period necessary to issue medical reports.

Article 13
The regulation shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall repeal all provisions that conflict therewith.

